# Frequently Asked Questions

Herein are some (projected) questions about this project, along with many Answers.

* Why does this project exist?

Good question. Over the nearly 20 year history of Dark Ages there have been
many attempts to archive Library assets. This is another attempt, but with much
different goals. Rather than simply archiving terribly rendered HTML from 20
years ago, loaded down with junk tags and (in some cases) proprietary garbage,
our goal is rather to produce a new, curated, edited edition, able to be
rendered in whatever format you like.

We picked Markdown for a variety of reasons. It is by far the most standard
format for lightweight markup at the present time, and is very much in-line
with our goal of *content preservation*, as well as *archiving*.

It also makes it trivial to edit and convert into other formats, but the
selection is not without some amount of drawbacks. We believe, however, that
uniform rendering of our shared history is useful, and desirable.

* Why are there graphics missing from these entries? Why did you remove
images? Why has *work* been made into plain text?

Markdown, while great for text, is much less great at extremely complex
layouts. Some sacrifices had to be made to shoehorn custom HTML with mocked up
book covers into this format.

In general: where the images are *necessary to the communication of the text
or meaning itself (diagrams, pictures, art)*, this has been included. Where the images
could be considered *functionally part of a book edition* (covers, borders,
"paper", headings) they have been omitted.

In addition, where translation of an image would make it clearer or more
readable (such as changing background colors, etc), they have been changed.

Again, this is an opinionated decision. This collection is very much that.

* Why have you made edits to the texts?

For the same reason that any librarian or scholar might - because there are
grammatical or spelling errors. Do you really believe your life is hugely
improved by reading "Adosa" instead of "Aosda"?

* I HATE THIS. STOP USING MY WORK IMMEDIATELY.

That is your right, certainly. Authors may request removal of their works from
this library by
[opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/hybrasyl/loures/issues). We reserve
the right to require you to demonstrate proof of ownership.

* I want to edit or change my work. I hate it now.

Sorry. This isn’t a living library just yet.

We would, in theory, tend to look favorably on new *editions* of works (as
submitted PRs) but wholesale editing of history isn’t something we will
support.

_More questions that weren’t answered here? Have additions of (recognized)
works? Open a PR or an issue. Thanks!_





