# The Ring

_by Aeowyn in **Dark Ages**_

## I

Just another day Aishe, a local citizen, thinks as he continues to walk around
Mileth in search of food for the day s meals and preparations for his next
hunt. He has already become quite frustrated by this time, because no merchant
is selling a single Split Rock Cobbler Shell, an item that on any other day
would have been considered an easy find. Deciding this attempt near hopeless,
he begins to head toward the city gate and further on towards his quiet and
peaceful home. But suddenly, breaking him momentarily out of his
disappointment, an energetic voice floats into his ears. He turns his head this
way and that, scanning the crowd for the holder of the voice that seems to
delight him. But as he finds the sought after person, he only see a cheery
young man, clothed in the bright garments He is wearing an exquisite gold ring
with a white crystal placed in it, a ring that might have been worth over 3
million Temurian currency were it ever sold. You are surprised that such a man
would be earning his living by telling stories. The man identifies himself to
those around him as a mere storyteller, telling others of the wonderful stories
he has to share, asking for only a few coins in return. He sits on a small log,
with a pot in front of him and a few coins inside of it. Repulsed, you turn
away.

"Excuse me, young man," the man motions toward Aishe.

His curiosity spiked, Aishe replies in an inquiring tone, "Yes, are you talking
to me?"

" Aye, I am," the storyteller says in the continuing energetic tone that
brought Aishe to him. "You look like a curious man who could use a good story
right about now." Aishe walks over to the man to listen.

" I am Aeowyn," the beggar begins with a declaring voice. "No, that isn't
right," he then says with a sigh as he looks toward the ground and shakes his
head. "A long time ago, back when I too was still merely a Mundane my name was
Iuslius, meaning "balance" or peace in my tongue. During that time, I was able
to see the caring faces of my parents every day. All three of us, my dad and my
mother and I, were farmers at that time, and specialists in the growing of red
cherries. On my sixteenth birthday, I received a special gift from parents, a
beautiful ring called a Garmi, which could never be found anywhere except in a
Draco's den. The ring resembled a silver ring with a ruby placed in it. As only
a Mundane would, I received it with great enthusiasm and gratitude and went
inside to grab the satchel I used to carry my seeds. I put my satchel of seeds
around my waist, and placed this extravagant item inside the satchel."

The beggar continues with a saddening voice._ "Upon my return to the fields
where I left my parents, I noticed that the sky had darkened rapidly. Suddenly,
a shrill cry erupted from the back of the house. I quickly rushed to its origin
to see what was wrong. When I arrived, I found my father's dying body thrown to
the ground in front of my house. I ran to him to see what had occurred but I
found him only minutes away from death. With love in his eyes, he looked up at
me in his last moments and whispered to me, "Be strong my son, Iuslius, for I
shall continue to live on inside of you." He reached his hand out and toward my
chest, but before he could touch me for a final time, he breathed his last
sorrowful gasp of air and died.

At that moment, I immediately rose from his limp body with a tear falling from
my eye. I brushed the tear from face as anger expressed it self on my
countenance. I gazed at my father's murderer, a dark man, who was dressed in
the flowing robes of a wizard. But these were colored a dark gray, the gray
seen on the skin of the Dubhaimid. He had a long black cape attached to his
robe, which he flung aside as he whirled around to face me. "You have them!" he
said as he directed a menacing finger in my direction. He stared at me, but
with such a face. His eyes were covered in shadow, but it was not a shadow that
you had ever seen. It was the shadow of evil, evil that absorbed all light
within it. "Return to me what is mine, young lad," the dark lord issued its
command to me in a low and menacing voice. "I shall kill you with the same
power that I used to kill you father, should you not obey me!"

I arose to full height. "I shall avenge my father's death!" I yelled. It was
not until later that I realized what was happening now. Light covered my flesh
as my mind began to fill with dreams and thoughts of what could be and of what
I could do, imagination and creativity now flowed through my body. I was
becoming an Aisling. But with the thoughts that could only be found in Aisling,
came the thoughts of evil and hatred. My hatred directed itself toward the dark
lord who was gloating in front of me.

The dark lord began to laugh. "Ha! You haven't the power to kill me!" He raised
his hands upward and created a small ball of fire that he contained within his
hands. "I summon the elements that I have mastered to punish this foolish
peasant. **Ard Srad!** " He threw the ball of fire to the ground in front of
me. A ring of fire formed around me, and I could feel the blazing heat burn my
skin. The ring of fire drew closer and closer, as the fire blazed hotter and
hotter. I quickly assumed the best defensive stance that I could and closed my
eyes as I braced myself for the fire to burn my flesh until I was dead.

But the heat suddenly stopped. I could no longer feel fire searing my flesh.
The sound of fire crackling continued, but the fire was no longer able to harm
me. I opened my eyes and saw a ghostly substance that had formed a shield to
protect me from the Dark Lord's wrath. "What is this?!?" the dark lord yelled
as he futilely tried casting spell after spell, each one bouncing off of my
protective shield.

Suddenly, the voice of my father erupted in my head. "Run, my son, run," he
told me in his old warm and caring voice. "I shall keep you safe for now."
Immediately, the ghostly substance detached itself from me and encased and
immobilized the dark lord. I ran as quickly as I could toward sanctuary in the
woods and away from the evil wizard.

## II

I ran to the enchanted woods as quickly as possible, hoping to find safety
there. I ran as fast as I could, glancing behind me as I went. I did not make
an effort to look ahead of myself as much as I was watching behind me to make
sure that the beast would not follow me. I was so unfocused about what was in
front of me that I ran into beautiful woman that had just materialized in front
of me.

"Oh," I quickly exclaimed trying to get a breath. "I sorry to have hit you. Are
you all right?"

"I am fine, Iuslius," she replied in a compassionate voice after she had dusted
off the twigs from her long blond hair and flowing purple robes. A gold cord
laced around her waist and a beautiful white headband held her hair back. "You
need not be in such a rush though. That which has caused your fear has
subsided."

Perplexed, I whirled around and scanned the skies and the ground in search of
my enemy. "How did you know that something was chasing me? And how did you know
my name?"

"Know you not of who I am?" she asked, surprised. I merely shook my head. She
arose and began to speak majestically. "I am Glioca, goddess of compassion. The
creature you fight is a child of Chadul and pure darkness. He feeds upon the
hatred of each and every Aisling of Temuair, and will do anything to cause that
hatred to grow larger, even kill the kin of another person." Glioca now paused
and looked at me with an examining stare. "By Danaan, I feel you are the one
who can stop this evil force."

"Me? What can I do? I tried to hurt him once, but I failed and was forced to
flee."

"Do not be so hasty young Iuslius. I and my son shall help you in your quest."
Suddenly, Glioca turned to the sky and whispered a name into the winds. A flash
of light erupted before us, and as the light dimmed, a burly and spirited young
man stepped out of the light. He was dressed in only with a piece of cloth
covering him, with no sword, shirt or boots, as I had seen other fighters from
Mileth sporting. He was adorned with a red and green necklace around his neck
and blue-white bracers covered his wrists, ankles, and upper arm. His chest was
sun burnt and darker than Glioca's skin, and his face was covered in scruffy
beard and bushy eyebrows.

"Ah, Cail god of nature, my dear son" Glioca greeted.

"Greetings, Mother!" Cail said as he greeted Glioca.

Glioca put her finger to her lips and pointed to me with her other hand. "Cail,
he is here."

Cail then directed his attention toward me. "By Danaan, you are right, mother.
He is the one who can defeat the Dark Lord. But right now, he doesn't have the
power." Cail stopped and walked over to me. From the small distance that we
were at, I could tell that he was extremely tall and very powerful.

"By the Hy-Brasyl, I can give him the power he needs." Cail extended his arm
toward me in a spell-casting fashion. "Iuslius, thou shalt be called by that
name no more," Cail began to chant, "From this day hence, thou shalt be called
by the name of Aeowyn, meaning survivor in the tongue of the wise. And to allow
you the greatest chance at fulfilling the destiny that is yours, I entrust to
you the blessing of Cail, and the ability to harness your body's full potential
and to draw from nature to unleash devastating attacks upon thine enemies, as
only a Monk would be able to."

As Cail began to say these words, a beautiful faerie light began to crawl over
my body. When Cail finished his blessing, the light exploded like majestic
fireworks, and I found myself clad in a fine culotte. "Now, go!" finished Cail.
"Go and defeat the unholy force."

"With your blessing, Cail, I will go and destroy the evil wizard. I thank you
both for all that you have done," I said, as I rushed off to return to my
house.

About 10 paces away, Glioca yelled one last thing to me, "Ah, yes Aeowyn. You
will be needing this." Glioca then threw a magical vial toward me, which I
caught with the newfound accuracy of a monk. " You will find out what it is
for." With that, both of the gods faded away and left me to return alone to
face that which I would loathe for the rest of my life.

## III

_Suddenly, the storyteller arises, as if the story had ended. "Wait," Aishe
exclaims, "Aeowyn, the story couldn't possibly be over!"_

_" Ah, but I grow weary," Aeowyn replies, "And I am beginning to find that
storytelling is neither a well paying nor a well-respected job". Aishe quickly
tosses 10 Temurian currencies into his collecting pot. "Hmm," the storyteller
says, "I might be able to finish the story after all."_

"I quickly ran back to my house," _continues the storyteller,_ " as I slipped
the hydele deum inside the satchel I was using to hold seeds before the
creature had attacked us. As I came into the opening of the woods, I could see
fire and smoke rising from my house. Panic rushed into me and I increased my
pace. When I reached the house, I saw that the creature had decided to give up
on me and instead ransack the house. Fortunately, my mother had taken into
behind a few trees near the house. I walked up to her, tapped he shoulder, and
asked, "Mother, are alright?"

"Oh!" She said as she jumped and turned around quickly." Oh, it is just you
Iuslius. I thought it was the Dark Lord."

"I am no longer, Iuslius. Cail gave me new powers and a new name, Aeowyn!"

"New powers? Have you seen what he can do? After you left, he chanted just one
spell, and the whole house burst into flames! Just one spell!"

"What? Why did he burn the house?"

"He keeps on mentioning something about a mystical artifact that was stolen
from him. He must think it is in the house."

Then I must keep him from getting to it." I then rushed out from behind the
trees and charged toward the Dark Lord. My mother yelled for me to stop and
that it was too dangerous, but I did not listen. I leapt into the air,
outstretched the blade of my foot and struck the Dark Lord with a sidekick to
his exposed back.

He did not even wince from the blow. "Ha! So you think that you have some power
now?" said the evil wizard. "Do you truly think you can hurt me even more than
you could last time?" He waved his hand and the very ground below us rose up
and threw me aside.

In desperation, I leapt to my feet and instinctively released the force of the
Chi in the form of a swift punch, greatly poisoning the creature. The monster
yelled in pain. "I see that you have been empowered," said the monster," with
the forces of Cail."

"I have been and now, I have come to kill you," I replied, as I arose and
stood in front of the creature, assuming an attacking stance.

"Do you truly believe that you can defeat me? I have been empowered with the
powers of all of the gods. Watch!"

"The power of Cail, god of nature and patron god of the Monks, masters of
their body, will lead my attack " The Dark Lord then attacked me with a
devastating series of martial arts attacks. I staggered backwards, dazed.

"The power of Fiosachd, god of luck and patron god of the devious and trap
laying Rouges, will start out the combination " He then dashed circles behind
me and laid tens of traps around me. If I were to move from where I was, they
would all set off.

"And the power of Ceannlaidir, god of war and patron god of the hard hitting
Warriors will complete it " The Dark Lord then reached into the folds of his
cloak and produced a sword sharper than the teeth of the Kelberoth, and swung
it at me. I impulsively dodged the weapon, but I painfully triggered the traps.
The pain forced me to fall backwards, but I was able to grab onto the tree next
to me and pull my self up to my feet.

"Very good, Aeowyn. Most would be unable to survive this long. The power of
Deoch, goddess of the light of creativity, will ensure that you do not continue
to survive " He then attacked me with a blinding light, rendering me totally
vulnerable to its attacks.

"The power of Gramail, god of the law and its punishments, will curse you " The
evil wizard then cast a spell on me, as I felt my magical powers being drained
from my body.

"Luathas, god of the gnosis, and patron god of the spell casting and element
harnessing Wizards " He then chanted a spell and the very athar, creag, srad,
and sal around me began to attack. I fell to the ground with a loud thud. Blood
dripped from my wounds, and I did not think that I would get up again.

"And Glioca, goddess of compassion and patron goddess of the healing Priests!"
The priest then raised his hands to the air to finish me. Then, a tiny wisp of
light appeared and touched my satchel, and then disappeared. The brown vial
that Glioca had given me fell out of my satchel and broke open, as I lay there
unable to do anything. The brown potion seeped out of the broken glass and
formed a puddle around me. Had I not know any better, I would have thought that
the potion was trying to reach my mouth. Suddenly, I felt revitalized. I rolled
aside just in time to the dodge the Dark Lord's cradh spell.

"No! I will not surrender!" I yelled to the creature, as I leapt through the
air, striking his shoulder, detaching it from the rest of the body. "I will
kill you for the death of my father!" My kick opened a large wound in the Dark
Lord's shoulder. He clutched it and tried to move his arm, but he found that he
could not.

"You have done what no one has done before, Aeowyn," he retaliated. " And for
that, I will kill you with the power of Sgrios, god of death!" He then raised
his arm to cast the final and most deathly spell he had. A black light began to
issue from his fingertips and soon encircled his whole hand. He lowered his arm
and pointed directly at me. "You won't be able to dodge this!" The black light
grew larger and larger and the fired toward me. I dashed aside, but the ray
turned direction as I did. I could begin to feel the cold touch of death as the
deathblow approached me.

"Noooo!" The voice of my mother yelled out, as she jumped in front of me with
the light a mere foot away from me. The light could not turn itself in time and
struck her instead of me.

The monster laughed evilly as the body of my mother went limp in front of me. I
kneeled, and reached into my satchel and looked for the potion that Glioca gave
me, but I realized that it had broken open. A teardrop fell. "I should have
saved the potion for you, mother; I should have saved it for you."

"No, my son. You needed to save yourself more than you need to save me,"
replied my mother in a saddening tone. "Now let me die in the form I have
always wished to be in, an Aisling. No longer am I a mere Mundane, a mere human
repetitively continuing on the same one task throughout their entire lives,
without the ability to ever create something new. I am finally a true human, an
Aisling with the power to think, the power to create, and the power to love." A
tear rolled down her cheek and fell to the floor she was laying upon. "And you
my son, are the dearest thing in the world to me. Do not let this evil kill
you, use your wits to defeat and remember that your father and I will always be
in your..." but before she could utter her last words out, her newly found
soul left her body.

I grew enraged. "You horrible beast!" I yelled as I got up to face the monster
for the last time. "You have killed everything I loved, and now I shall kill
you!" I leapt at the Dark Lord's torso and let loose with a blinding fury of
punches and kicks, but the monster was not even fazed, he merely knocked me
away as if I was a fly.

"You haven't the power to kill me, you puny Aisling!" I posed to unleash
another strike against my enemy without uttering a word of response.

"No, boy, wait!" A voice broke out, the voice of Cail. "Keep your wits about
you. Think about what could defeat him. Your parents have left you a great
inheritance." Then it hit me, the last thing that my parents had left me, the
Garmi ring. I quickly withdrew it from my satchel and put it on my finger.

"What?!?" said the monster. "No! That ring is supposed to be mine!"

A bright light and a lovely voice came forth from the ring. "This is the holy
Ring of the Fae," conveyed the voice, "It represents the person who controls.
If the person is good, then evil will be vanquished. If the person is evil
than wickedness will rise up and rule." The bright white light then began to
grow lighter, until it was blinding. I turned my eyes away and shielded my
face from the light. "And this man is fighting for a good and just cause!"

I opened my eyes and looked where the Dark Lord was standing. Now instead I saw
a lifeless corpse. Glioca was standing behind it. "What is going on?" I
inquired, perplexed.

"The ring that we gave you was quite magical in nature. Originally it belonged
to Danaan, but when she first created the Fae, she gave it to them to protect
them from the evil of Chadul. But one of the Fae was a traitor and gave it to
Deoch. When Deoch allied with Danaan again, Danaan reclaimed the ring. But she
had grown wiser this time. This time she fed the ring to a magical Draco, which
was constantly keeping the rings power tapped and therefore, even if the ring
were recaptured, it would take ten years to recharge and allow itself to be
used." Glioca then cast a spell and the ring glowed again with a magical light.
The ring now had turned to gold with the crystal in it becoming a magnificent
white gem. "The ring is now bonded to you, Aeowyn. You are destined for this
opportunity. You must prevent evil from arising like this creature, no matter
what may try to stop you, and you must always try to keep the good on the
proper path." Glioca then disappeared as I walked away from this bloody battle
and from the many memories that would haunt me forever.

_" A good story, Aeowyn," Aishe says as the storyteller arises and begins to
leave._

_But before he does, he picks up his collecting pot, turns it upside down and
replaces it upon the ground. "I believe you were looking for this." He says as
he disappears into the shadows._

_Aishe picks up the pot and sees that a split Rock Cobbler shell had been left
underneath it. "Thank you Aeowyn! How did you do that?" Aishe says, as you
notice that he has left. "Aeowyn? Aeowyn?"_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Aeowyn_Ring.html .
```


