# Along for the Ride

_by Akujioto in **Dark Ages**_

The rain beat hard against the windowpanes as the weary monk warmed his hands
by the fire at Aingeal's tavern in Mileth. He listened to the conversation of
the mundanes around him, chuckling slightly to himself each time a new group of
young aislings were incensed by the old beggar's tale of the Terror of the
crypt. He settled back in his chair and listened to the patter of the rain, his
cullote still soaked from the downpour. There was a storyteller on stage, and
he was regaling the mundanes with tales of the evil creatures lying within the
crypt on the outskirts of town. One of the mundanes barked a laugh and said
"Ha! There ain' no bats down 'ere! I loo'ed in 'ere meself an' all I saw wa'
some rats 'n' a few spiders 'n' such. Ye've had a bit tae much tae drink, I
say!"

"There are indeed bats down there, but they are far from the worst things
you'll find." Said the young monk, rising out of his seat.

The mundane looked at the monk, and saw the spark within his eyes, and said "O
really now? Why don' ye tell us of what ye saw down 'ere, first-hand like hmmm?
No' like this man tellin' tales o' his nephew's brother's mother's aunt and
what not."

Cheers arose from the gathered mundanes, and the storyteller joined them to
allow the young monk his story.

"Very well, I shall then tell you a story about what lies deep within the
crypt.

"I was younger then than I am now, I was training my body in preparation for
the trials of the Green Dugon. I had just learned a new skill, that of Poison
Punch, and was seeing how effective it was against the foes in the crypt.

"Now, the first few floors are nothing special, rats and spiders, and once in a
great while, a centipede will cross your path. These creatures are weak for the
most part, and easily killed. At that time, I was training myself around the
5th floor, where the rats and spiders have been replaced by bats and scorpions.
Dangerous ground for one not girded for combat.

"It was while I was training that I happened upon a priest by the name of
Omner." The monk chuckled a bit and continued, "He was dressed in the robe of a
novice priest, and I took him for a youngster in a dangerous place. He asked if
he could tag along as he was searching for gems and necklaces and what-not. I
said 'sure, cant do no harm' and let him tag along, healing me as I took on
scorpions.

Aided by a protective spell from Marlon, augmented by my powers of Mist and
Draco Stance, I was a formidable opponent. Yet on one fight I took a nasty hit
and was nearly killed. Without skipping a beat, Omner cast ard ioc, and thats
when I knew that this young priest was in fact more learned than any I had met
before.

The young monk sipped from the bottle of wine before him and smiled inwardly as
he continued his tale. "After a few fights, we ran into some friends Omner had
been waiting for, and was told they planned to travel all the way to the bottom
of the crypt. I was somewhat stricken when they asked if I wished to join them.
I decided that this was an opportunity not to be missed and so gladly accepted
their company. I was given several red potions of beothaitch deum, in case one
of us should fall, the potion would keep us from Sgrios' dark grasp. And so we
started to descend into the crypt.

"Omner and I were joined by three others, a rogue, a warrior, and another monk.
Together our band descended into the forbidding depths of the crypt. Nothing I
had heard had prepared me for what I saw that night. On my trip down there, I
saw horrors that make the terror the old beggar speaks of sound like a peaceful
fae in the garden.

"I saw great bats, white bats, living chests, marauders and more evils as we
descended floor after floor. If not for Omner's well practiced spells, nary a
one of us would have survived far down there.

"On about the 25th floor, we came upon one of the most feared creatures in
Temuair - a succubus. It sped at us and I feared for my life as it approached,
but our group was well coordinated, and with our combined efforts, we slew it,
and as a trophy, Omner cut a lock of hair from its corpse.

"Having helped to slay the foul demoness, I felt invincible. I was utterly sure
there was no more dangerous creature in those crypts. I was wrong.

"We made it down to the 29th floor. There I saw the most horrifying creature I
have ever seen with my own eyes - a wraith, it hacked at us with its scythe,
slaying our warrior with one mighty blow. Omner restored his life and commanded
us all to run, and we did.

"Our band ran towards the stairs to avoid the onslaught, for now we were
surrounded by foul Succubi, and wraiths. If not for me our whole group would
have been killed for sure."

A hatchet flew towards the young monk and stuck itself into the table before
him. The thrower, a rouge, called out "Akujioto, why dont you tell these folk
the truth!"

The young monk grinned, somewhat embarassed. "Alright, so maybe I didn't save
them all, but after all, I was just along for the ride."

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```

