# Confession of a Fae

_by Aurica of **_Dark Ages_**_

It has been many a Deoch since I had last seen my home. And although time made
memories faded I missed it still. With such a passion for the wilderness that I
had not known existed until I left it. One must learn not to take so precious a
thing for granted.

I have lived among Aislings, indeed as an Aisling for a great amount of time
now. I have learned from them even loved them in my own way. But they are not
my kind. They never could be, not even those most in touch with Danaan could.
Although I have met a rare few who were worth a second look. It is true
however, that Aislings are incredibly complex creatures. Through my studies I
have discovered that an Aisling had an incredable amount of various personality
traits. Each one of them unique, it is their originality that makes them so
captivating. The fact that they are not nearly as in control of their emotions
as a respectable person would think, making them fascinating to watch. That is
why I am here, to watch.

How long ago was it? I can't remember the exact year, only that it was Spring.
Yes, when the fresh rain washes the bleak death grip winter leaves over the
land and leaves it budding anew. An endless cycle. It was an early spring night
when it happened. The moonlight broke through the cloud cover dappling the
ground it its silver radiance. Alighting the petals of the flowers that grew in
such abundance that it filled the heart with joy to revel in their delicate
beauty. And there I danced night after night to the song of the crickets and
frogs. The wind wrapping me holding me guiding my movements; the entire forest
spoke to me, and speaks to me still when I am near enough to it. It was there
on a night as glorious as life itself where I met Bella and my entire life
changed. For better or worse I know not.

I was dancing again, as I do every night. Singing, one with the world and the
dawn. When on a final spin into the air I stopped. There, there right before me
were eyes. Eyes of which I had never seen the like of before. They were curious
and innocent empty waiting for the trials of life to fill them. You could read
these eyes and understand them. Open as a meadow on a sunny day; they were eyes
that knew of the forest and all of its beauty but were deaf to the song it sang
for those who would listen. They were not of my people.

Startled I left, flying fast and hard . Home I told no one. Intrigued and
confused, but silent I remained. The next night I danced once more embracing
the night with reckless abandon and just as the previous night I saw the eyes.
This time I stayed longer to look at the bearer of these strange open eyes. A
female very similar in form as me or any other fae. There is very little
difference between our physical forms, discounting the stature we are in fact
quite similar. Night after night we repeated this game as Spring faded into
Summer she would come earlier and I would let her watch me dance. Ignoring her
yet always aware of her intrusion upon my life. It was I who made the first
approach. It was late summer when I finally gathered my courage and spoke. She
started, she had not been aware that I knew of her presence. It still makes me
laugh when I picture a Mundanes idea of stealth. And so we talked until dawn
faded into day and once more I went to my home. It became a ritual for us and I
looked forward to seeing the young Mundane, Bella. We talked until winter. She
told me of Marlin imprisoned in Loures, of the magic of the Aisling a mundane
could only dream to achieve. She told me of towering buildings and beasts that
were used as slaves rather than equals. The war and destruction of Asoada. A
legend now with a ring of truth to it. I know better, my people know of Asoada
we are in a respect, the essence of what it was. But I left her to her beliefs.
All of it puzzled me as I hung on to her every word always eager to learn more
of this incredible race. Although a Mundane there was something about her, she
was special, I know not how she attracted me to her world even as I feared it.
Finally when spring came again and our friendship had grown fast I let Bella
dance with me on the wings of glorious night, with the song of forest reaching
out to her. To this day I know not if she heard it. But I think in some way
Bella became the Aisling she always spoke of so dearly. I was compelled to know
more about her and her life. Although we became fast friends I never told Bella
about my people, it was not something, I felt, she needed to know of. The
Aisling she spoke of fascinated me, and always I questioned her till the last
moment of the dawn whence I left, reluctantly, for my home.

Then one night Bella appeared but there was something wrong. She would not tell
me what it was, but it was dark. She would not dance with me this night and
there was a pallor about her. She was afraid and I could smell it. Suddenly the
wind around me was no longer warm, the clouds roiled and pitched and turned
black. The song of the forest turned to a shriek of agony and rage. I screamed
and hid from blackness, calling for Bella to join me. She was frozen in her
fear only her eyes moved. I saw them and they pleaded to me for aid. The clouds
grew blacker and massed around Bella. I cried out to her, unable to move, my
fear holding me in place to witness the horrible scene.

A shape amassed from the clouds swooping down upon Bella. Its body was black
upon black and I could not clearly see it. A daemon of shadow, corruption of
light. Its body deformed and twisted as its foul black mind. A dark creature
from Chadul's darker Abyss, a Dubhaim. At this point I turned away unable to
watch as a bitter look of anguished acceptance swept across Bellas face. I saw
nothing more, refusing to look clutching my head for fear I would be driven
mad. The sound of the beasts wretched wings beating through the darkness away
from me reached my ears even over the pitch of my terrified screaming and Bella
was lost to me forever. The forest was still once more, I stopped screaming but
the tears would not stop. Curling tightly into a ball nurtured in the arms of
my forest, I wept. Cried for who? Cried for Bella or cried for me, to this day
I still don't know. I had let my friend be taken not by death, but something so
much worse.

I did only what I felt I could I do then. I left. I left my home, my loved
ones, everything that was beloved and familiar to me. Took apon myself, an
Aisling form and entered the world of the Aisling. To live as they lived and to
learn whatever they knew. In reality I became an Aisling to some extent, more
so than merely physical appearance. New emotion and experience a new beginning
of sorts. Alone in a new world with no chance of returning to my old one. My
family alienated, through these many Deochs I've yet to know what has become of
them. It is one of my few regrets. I could not go back now even if I wished it.
They wouldn't recognize me now if I did. But I am not unhappy, my ventures have
brought me to where I am today. I am grateful for it. Thus, I sit here this
night in my home on Abel coast, the candle growing low and the sky outside
growing lighter, writing my most horrid memories down, for the past must be
faced eventually. All secrets must be told in time it is inevitable. I know my
tears stain this page as do my words, but I must tell someone lest my heart
break from the strain.

Yet still there is a part of me, a part of my soul that has never lost its
innocence, that will never be tarnished nor broken. The essence of my heritage
flowing through my veins and I embrace it. Each and every night promptly
despite any obstacle I have traveled back. Not to my homeland, but to my
forest. It is there in the night when the dew drops glisten on the leaves
forming countless crystal faces when the soft glow of starlight lands upon
them, where the song of the forest plays upon my ears, golden, strong and
welcoming. Here I spend my nights giving advice to passing Aislings who should
ask about my forsaken friend, lost to the world but never lost to love. It is
the least I could do for dear Bella. Still my forest accepts me though I feel
at times I do not deserve its embrace and when no one is watching I lose myself
once again in the dance of the fae, wild in night. Arms spread wide in
expressionless joy and in wordless song I do the one thing that truly and
forever will set me free. Alone in the woods with the moon on my face and the
song of the forest alive in my ears, all emotion encompassed by boundless joy,
I do what I was meant to, what has been in my blood for countless generations,
I dance.

_Aurica DeMontre_  
_lost to the ways of the world_  
_Summer, Deoch 15, 5th Moon, 30th sun_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Aurica_Fae.html .
```
