# The Sacred Mantle

_By Azyre of **Dark Ages**_

Cast away under a willow tree a young Aisling closes his eyes thoughts of the
day surpass him as he ruminates what he believes is his destiny. For what he is
pondering is his one love, the love of mastership in the path of priesthood for
he hopes to one day understand all Glioca's knowledge and be able to hold it as
a thought in his head. He hopes that one day the gods for which he pray to for
advice shall smile down upon in appreciation for his loyalty to them. He has
seen but a few accomplish this goal yet deep down reliazes this is his love and
wants it more than all the gold in temuair. He has seen the Sacred Mantle
draped on these Aislings for he knows these are the ones for which have
completed the test and these are the few who have been able to understand the
knowledge of priesthood to the fullest extent. Yet how can he, young and
fragile fresh into the world, complete his destiny? One so young cannot receive
this task without hard work, for nothing in life is easy.

As his eyes stagger to open the glipse of the suns unyielding rays shine upon
him and he begins to notice a figure. He cannot make out the form but notices
long shimmering golden hair for she was summoning him closer to her. He than
slowlys makes his way to the figure in what seems like the most beautiful song
he had ever heard she than spoke to him she whispered "I am the light that is
here to guide you pray to me everyday tell me your thoughts tell me your dreams
and everyday and I shall fulfill what you have been dreaming for these past
years".

He then wakens was this a dream his says to himself perplexed it couldnt be she
spoke to me I shall follow the advice of the figure who spoke and one day I
shall become one who wears the Sacred Mantle.

_Azyre_
_Deoch 19, 5th Moon, 14th Sun_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Azyre_Mantle.htm .
```





