# The Chant: Mor Athar

_By Beos in **Dark Ages**_

He glanced up at the sky quickly, only flashing his eyes toward the clear blue
bastion of his power. His head remained still, preparing for what was to come.
He then looked forward, and focused straight ahead, his eyes throwing a
piercing gaze upon their target. He slowly started raising his empty hands
toward the sky, fingers outstretched as if holding some unseen spherical
object. In his wide stance, his feet pressed against the insides of his worn
leather boots, attempting to drive them into the earth and giving him stability
against a great force.

"And it starts, stir within me."

He felt the air charge around him as his spirit started to reach out of his
body. He let out a sigh as his power started to manifest itself in the skies
above. The air started to thicken and swirl about five body-lengths directly
above him. The middle spinning with incredible torque, producing a vortex of
dark clouds which were deployed in every direction. The point at the very
center of the whirlpool was as black as the soul of Chadul himself. It was a
window into infinite nothingness, a never-ending sea of black that led right
back out his eyes.

"Grow, my strength."

He instantly moved his arms down to his sides, hands bent at the wrists with
his palms parallel to the forest floor. Another tug on his very being caused
his legs to tighten. The wind picked up and noisily gusted across the land. It
carelessly grabbed at vagabond leaves, letting them ride for a time, finally
depositing them at random. These new gusts spread the clouds out across the sky
in all directions.

"Take your form, my friend."

He slowly pushed his hands down to straighten his wrist, pushing the earth away
from him as well. He moved further above the ground, his feet finally dangling
limply a few feet in the air. He spread his arms out at his sides and leaned
back against the wall of force supporting him. His chest heaved and he gritted
his teeth tightly. Slowly pulling itself from his body was the element itself.
For a few moments the element would be free, almost as if it was back in the
days before the drowning of Hy-Brasyl. The element thought of these times, and
ascended in solitude to the vortex above. The wind raged fiercely. The clouds
turned black, churning ominously. Thunder growled at all who would listen.
Expanding further, the black aerial mass blocked out all light.

"For me, my friend."

All was silent. The black sky waited. The maelstrom was still. He floated to an
upright position. He surveyed the area for but a second. He stiffly raised an
arm in the direction he was facing.

"There."

The silence broke and the sky came alive with the sound of crackling. At least
nine points of light grew bright in the heavens. Lightning arced quickly
between them all. The crackling noise grew to crescendo as each point rained
down a bolt of pure white light onto a point about twenty feet in front of him.
As it struck the ground, he was hit with an invisible weight from above. He was
thrown to the ground gasping for air. He closed his eyes and clenched his teeth
in pain. In a moment, the feeling passed and he felt whole again. He climbed to
his knees, and then to his feet, a bit unsteady. Opening his eyes, he once
again looked upon a beautiful day. Walking toward the smell of scorched flesh,
the mage went to collect his bounty.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```

