# An Aisling Battle

_by Brothaigh in **Dark Ages**_

The sun shone brightly in the sky over the glorious battlefield of the Aislings
as all their blades glittered in it's splendour. In the background the old
priest could hear the pipes calling out the marching tune. "Air adhart do
batail!" the batttle-hardened Relyn cried out and unsheathed his blade,
swinging it forward. The old priest grinned and summoned the magickal energies
to bless Aisling troops. "Priest Brothaigh, follow the flank and heal from
there," Relyn commanded, "We've got to have well men to battle the dubhaimid."
"Aye Ser Relyn," the old priest responded while running after the men onto the
battlefield. The wind picked up slowly as the two armies ran towards one
another gritting their teeth, the Aislings ripping swords from their sheathes,
the dubhaimid casting curses upon them. "Ao cradh!" the old priest shouted an
attempt to heal a few of the cursed men. He could begin to feel the energy
trickling away from his body.

*clang* sword and claw met, the Aislings were slashing away at the dubhaimid
force, the monks landing crippling blows to some, and the warriors slashing
their blades with all their hearts. "Ard Sal!" a wizard shouted just in the
nick of time to save a younger Aisling from death... if only one of the masters
were here to help. The entire Aisling army was weakening, the dubhamid force
was too strong for them... Brothaigh raised his staff, "Ceannlaider guidhe!,"
the ceannlaider priests saw the signal and began to kneel and pray as soon as
the old Gliocan dropped his staff. Could it be that one of the Aislings just
pushed back one of the creatures... yes, Ceannlaider has blessed the tropps.
"Stailc!" Relyn calls from the front, a gash across his forehead and another
along his arm. "Stailc!" he cried, and the aislings began to press even
further. Relyn slashed harder, feeling the wind blowing at his back, his blade,
blood red now, blurring from left to right and back again at the motion of a
beastly claw before him. "Mor Ioc Comlha!" Brothaigh shouted, he knew one last
spell would drain him, he could feel the energy failing from his body, but he
cast again "Mor Ioc Comlha!" the force was nearly healed... "Mor Ioc Comlha!"
he was out of magickal energy. He called upon his life energy, welcoming death
should it mean the destruction of the dubhaimid force. Falling to the ground at
this last attempt, he could feel the cold grip of Sgrios gnawing its way
towards him.

"Ard Ioc!" a familiar voice shouted. "Get up Brothaigh, there's work to be
done... drink this, the voice handed him a small flask, he quickly gulped down
it's contents and turned in thanks to the voice as his strengths returned,
"Thank ye Ser Deksar, I am glad ye came," "T'would be no fairer place than here
serving my fellow aisling." Deksar replied, helping Brothaigh to his feet.
"Goddess bless ye both Sers," called another voice. "Lady Angelic, ye came as
well I see," Brothaigh smiled warmly. "Someone had to keep you two in check,
now let's get to it." The three began to call upon the Gods and Goddess of
Temuair, singing their songs and calling them to the battlefield. Could it be
Ceannlaider swinging his blade out at a snarling dubhaimid beast? Or is that
Glioca casting her protection down onto the men and women below her? The wind
blew softly through the trees, bringing a smell of blood and sweat up to the
three, as they finished the ritual. "Grab a blade now," Brothaigh grinned as he
bent down to pick up a smaller sized sword from the armaments pile, Deksar and
Angelic followed his example. "Goddess be with us this day," Deksar grinned as
they dashed into the fray.

"Iol-bhuadh!" Victory at last, the Aislings had driven back the terrible
dubhaimid. The sun was now low in the sky, casting it's orange and purple glow
out onto the bloodied battlefield... tonight, after the wounds were healed,
they would all celebrate. The pipes began calling again, the marching tune, as
all the battle weary Aislings began to dance out in that field.**

_By Brothaigh An' Feallsanach_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Brothaigh_Battle.html .
```
