# The Tale of an Unknown Hero

_by Camryn in **Dark Ages**_

_Come now, friend, or Deoch's eyes shall ne'er fall upon us!_

Such started the fated day - much like any other day in the company of Kyne
Entyr. He was a short, heavy set man. Most of the other knights would tower
above him in height, though his faith was well beyond theirs. His hair had an
odd glow of silver, unlike any I had ever seen before, while his eyes were of
the deepest brown. His skin was rough from many wounds, and scorched from
marching in the western sun. He was my friend.

_Ho! Take it easy now, Kyne, or you'll fall into the sea! What good would
hurrying be, if you weren't to reach our destination?_

We had known each other long before the Deoch dating. In fact, I believe we met
in the Year of Danaan 3284. This was when we first joined the Loures military.
Back then, we were only cadets, of course, but Kyne would always pursue a quest
of honor. None were about - at least none that we were allowed to seek - but
his mood was never downed.

At this time, the War of Shadows had been over for some time. Most adventurers
had settled down, even though the battle of Danaan and Chadul was not fully
over. Mortals believed that we had done our chore, and few cared much for
joining the army. Not so with Kyne. When others laid down their swords, he
preached more convinced than ever, that the true battle was only beginning.
Unfortunately, he was right.

_Do you see those stars, Seon? Those are the guiding light of Danaan! Now that
we are at sea, we shall live and die by them! You would do well to study them!_

_Indeed we shall, though I will leave such tasks to others. Our lot will come
when we land, and I should think I would be better off having rested then, than
weary from watching stars! But do as you will, my friend. I am certain you will
be wide awake in the morning, whether you sleep or not._

_How could I not? How can you not?! We shall be close to the very lands of
Deoch! O, how I wish we would have time to visit His temple!_

_Aye, I would much more have enjoyed traveling to see such, and perhaps offer a
prayer. But our task is much different, dear Kyne, and if you do not
concentrate, you might not return to your wife ever again!_

They had met only a year after he joined the army. She was a fine young woman;
and of noble upbringing to boot! If our friendship hadn't been in the way, I
should have tried for her heart, myself. Her name - Lady Mavelle Riofan - was
well known in the court of Loures. Her father owned a large estate near Piet,
as well as several others all over Temuair. They weren't permitted to see each
other, of course, Kyne being no more than a peasant's son. However, he laid his
eyes on her as she passed through the courtyard of Loures Castle, and his heart
was bound forever. He managed to tell her in secrecy, with my assistance, and
she soon fell for him as well. Their marriage was permitted three years later,
when Kyne had raced to the title of knight. They were given one of Lord
Riofan's estates in Mileth, and settled down there, though Kyne often visited
Loures. They had a beautiful daughter three years after, in Danaan 3291, whom
they called Caitir.

The following year, Danaan 3292, was that of Danaan's sacrifice, and the
beginning of the Deoch dating. Kyne had always been a religious man, but now
he became nearly obsessed! When the Aisling Spark first appeared, he made it
his goal in life to achieve it. He did all in his power to gain the notice of
Deoch, but without luck. Or at least so he thought. I still wonder, to this
day, if perhaps he had received the Spark, yet had been too obsessed to notice
it? His wit, as well as his sense of justice was outstanding, and many young
knights of Loures looked up to him.

_Please, dear citizens of Undine! Listen to me! I, Kyne Entyr, have come from
Loures to assist you in this recent turmoil! Have no fear, friends, for soon we
shall all live peacefully as allies!_

_Ah say you go back whence you came, bloody tyrant! Leave us to ourselves! We
dun want any o' yer conquerin' on these parts!_

A small group of villagers were already picking up shovels and rakes to resist
the knights.

_But...But we come only to help! I beg of you, let not the past deeds interfere
with what we must accomplish now! Loures wills no evil!_

_Perhaps, my friend, it is best if we stand down for now. They shall not listen
to you, and I am sure you would rather not fight them. Come, Kyne - we shall
discuss this in private._

This day took place in the 13th Deoch. The rebellion in Undine had restarted
and we - Kyne and I - had been sent to calm them down. Kyne was sure that our
mission would not include bloodshed. He was certain that Loures would release
the oppression of the village, and that he would be able to befriend them. He
knew that battle might come about, but he was sure that diplomacy could carry
us a long way.

At this time, Mavelle had given birth to their second child - a brown-haired
lad by the name of Camryn. Though he was only eight years old when Kyne
traveled to Undine, he had already practiced swordplay for some time. At
times, I think that Kyne was shaping the boy to be an Aisling. Perhaps to
accomplish what Kyne thought he, himself, had failed. Camryn seemed interested
enough in swordplay, but his father's sense of justice was not as apparent...

Caitir was now a young woman remarkably resembling her mother. She was a kind
soul, tending to those in need, both those of her rank and those far below it,
constantly worrying her mother. Kyne had practically retired, only joining
missions he considered of great importance.

_Lord Entyr! The Orcs have arrived!_

The young soldier looked as if his lungs were about to pop, as he rushed to our
quarters.

_Orcsï¿½? By Deoch, lad, what is it you speak of? There are no Orcs in these
parts!_

_The ones from Loures, Milord! They've just arrived by boat a few minutes ago!
Have ye not been informed?_

Suddenly, he looked as if he was horribly ashamed, though he tried to hide it.

_Goodness, no! Now you babble! There are no Orcs in Loures either, and Thank
Goddess for that, or we should nae be here, but rather defending our Liege!_

Kyne was growing irritated, and quite confused. I decided to remain quiet, for
the time being.

_No, no, Milord! The Orcs are on our side! As well is the large fellow, with
the Axe! And that be good news for us, if ye ask me, as I should run away
screaming before I took up arms against him!_

_What?! Are you saying that our good Lord Bruce sent those foul beasts here to
aid us?! Whatever for? Orcs are the worst negotiators I have ever dealt with!_

_They're not here to negotiate, Milord. The High Court has decided that Undine
shall be reclaimed by force. I was certain ye would have been informed by
now?__

_Sweet Danaan, what manner of trickery is this? Seon! I cannot allow this! The
kind peasants of this village will be slaughtered by these beasts! They have no
way of defense!_

_Aye. But you speak of betraying our Liege, my friend. Such an act would have
us executed for sure, even if we were to survive the battle. It torments my
heart to think of dear Mavelle, not to mention your children, if you could not
return to them._

_Nonetheless, I should rather die here than return to them a coward! I cannot,
and will nae order you to join me, Seon, but if there are truly Orcs about, I
can do naught but to protect this place._

_As you wish, my friend, and surely I shall accompany you. How would I ever
face the kind Lady, if I abandoned her husband in his time of need? I fear that
our battle shall be in vain, but let us fight it as true knights should!_

And so it was that we joined the rebels. They were skeptical to accept our
offer at first, but after we had felled the first Orc, they became very eager
to have us on their side. Soon after, Aislings flocked to from all about the
lands, in an effort to repel the invasion. Kyne felt that this was his finest
hour...perhaps he even believed that he was an Aisling, now that he could fight
alongside them. Even I, who had thought our battle to be hopeless, was becoming
optimistic. Even if we could never return to Loures, we now had friends who
would care for us. Though the High Court clearly wanted Mavelle and the
children punished, Lord Riofan would not stand for it, and he was a powerful
enough man to prevent it.

In fact, all was well, however unlikely that was in our current situation. But,
deep down, we both knew that our luck was bound to end sooner or later...

It was during winter. Our lodgings were poor and the biting cold hurt our
performance in battle, as well our sleep at night. Kyne was in high spirits, as
always, but under the appearance, he too was suffering.

The battle came without warning. Suddenly, an enormous axe came through the
wall, almost tearing down the entire shack. We knew well enough who our foe
was.

_A follower of Carnun! Seon! Quickly! Hesitation will be our death!_

I was certain of our death at any rate. The Carnun Champions that roamed Undine
were incredible foes, second only to the Dracos of Legend in the Kasmanium
Mines. I was scared. More so than I had ever been before. I drew my sword, but
it slipped my hand almost immediately after. This was all the time it took the
massive mercenary to cleave poor Kyne. Even though he had parried, the axe, and
the strength with which it was wielded, was too much even for his fine sword to
repel.

I was speechless. Part fear, part sorrow had paralyzed me, but the axe-wielder
would allow me no time to gather courage. I was soon to die.

In the instant that the Carnun Champion turned to me, he shrieked in pain. A
massive sword had pierced his lower chest. A moment later flames consumed him,
as yet another blade charged at his shoulder. He fell. Dead. Behind him now
stood three tall men and a beautiful woman: One had wild blue hair, bearing an
exquisite armor of Hy-brasyl - he was the one who had attacked first. Next to
him was a shorter man, dark-haired and shrouded in robes, he wielded a golden
staff. The third man - the one who had made the final strike - stood next to
the woman. Both were blonde and wore armor of gold. Undoubtedly, they were
Aislings.

_Aislings..._

Kyne lay on the ground, barely breathing. He smiled, though, and his eyes were
shining.

The woman rushed to his side, urging him not to speak, while she beckoned
Danaan to help her heal him. She knew well enough that it was too late. The
blonde man kneeled next to her, doing what he could to help. The blue-haired
one and the Wizard tended to me, helping me to my feet.

_I shall die but... without regrets... Kind Aislings... I beg of you... My son
shall soon receive the Spark of Deoch... I am sure of it... I have done... what
I could... to teach him... If... If one of you would take him under your
wing..._

He coughed, spitting blood. The woman's eyes were in tears as she nodded to
him. Those were his last words. The woman closed poor Kyne's eyes before she
looked at the blue-haired one. He simply nodded before going outside. He dug a
grave, and as soon as he was finished, the two Warriors laid my friend in it.
The woman uttered a few kind words, before we covered the grave and returned to
Undine. The Aislings had to leave, but asked me to send the boy to Mileth to
look for them, when he came of age. That was the last I ever saw of them,
though I have heard their names in legends since.

Seven years have passed now. Camryn is 16 this year, and his mother has allowed
him to leave. I sent him to look for those Aislings, as I had been instructed,
while I stay behind to help Mavelle and Caitir. They had been heart-broken when
I delivered the news, but as the years passed they left their sorrow behind,
and I stayed with them.

Camryn never wept for his father. I'm certain he cared, but that lad has always
been too strong. Though he is the youngest of the family, the task as the Lord
of the House never daunted him. His father would be proud.

Such ends my tale of a dear friend. Kyne Entyr was not a man of legends, but
he was strong and fought for a cause much greater than he. Though Aislings
receive all the attention in these days, I argue that a few great men, who
might not have received the gift of the gods, are worthy of tales as well.

I leave these notes in Camryn's room. Perhaps he will read them some day and,
if he sees fit, he might tell the tale to others, or simply pass on what I
have written. I believe this to be Camryn's decision, not mine, though I hope
he will... Kyne deserves that much.

_In Fond Remembrance_  
_Seon Qendall_  
_Deoch 20, 6th Moon, 12th Sun_  

_Edited By_  
_Camryn Entyr_  
_Deoch 24, 7th Moon, 29th Sun_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Camryn_Unknown.html .
```


