# The Legend of the Succubus

_by Cliona in **Dark Ages**_

_In the deepest levels of the ancient burial crypts of Mileth village live the
beautiful but deadly Succubi, the minions of Sgrios all too often seen passing
by the Pravat caves as the worshippers of Sgrios play their deadly games. But
they are not the oldest of the Dubhaimid, no not old at all._

## Prologue - Deoch 1

They found her at twilight, curled in a heap, miles from the ancient castle
where she'd last been seen headed. It had been months since the massacre in the
village of Finach, ages, it seemed, since the disappearance of the worshippers
of the darkest gods. She lay in the forest on the Isle of Man, under the
protective branches of the guilseileach tree. Upon returning to the
newly-dubbed city of light, under the shiny lampposts they laid her.

Her hair, which had always been raven in color, had taken on the bright crimson
hues of blood. Her eyes, once the talk of the town, had always been a clear
crystal blue, but were now dark, nearly black in their steely radiance. The
dark gold of her skin had faded, gone ashen in the uninterrupted darkness of
that tainted castle. Scars of every size and description ran every possible
course over her young body.

Strangest, though, was the clothing which covered her. Black satin, it was the
courtly dress of a bygone age, she lay tied up in the stately velvet bodice of
a lady in waiting. Her face and hair was clean, yet she claimed to remember
nothing, not even putting on the garb which covered her.

Over the mountains of Kasmanium the sun sank, and the moon began her stately
rise into view. As the sky grew dark, shadows grew long and, eventually, ceased
to be seen. The fragments of light, safely encapsulated in their towers of
glass, began to glow faintly, then, suddenly, they came ablaze with light,
illuminating the streets.

The kindly priests of Rucesion hopped to their feet and stared with amazement
at the girl before them. Her eyes burned with the unholy fire of Deoch, her
young chest heaved with passion. Her hair gleamed violet in the Light, her
mouth opened, revealing white, pointed teeth. She leapt for the nearest priest
and tore at his robes, searching hungrily for the young flesh beneath. He
clawed desperately at her to no avail, while the other priests pummeled her
with flashes of light and fury, eventually clubbing her with their staves, with
not a single scratch upon her body. On a whim, one of the priests, a worshipper
of Glioca, hidden behind an empty barrel of ale, threw a heal. Immediately, the
possessed woman stood, turning furiously to point a daggerlike finger towards
him.

"You!" she cried, her voice dark and lusty, her body consumed with shadows. "I
will find you! I will see to your destruction in _my domain_! I will find you
in your dreams, where no one may hear you scream! " With that, she lunged for
the young priest, who covered his face with his hands, desperately. When her
strike never came, he lifted his fingers away, gingerly. She was gone, leaving
only the shivering priests to stare in wonder.


## I - Legend

She walked slowly, dried leaves crackling beneath her bare feet like the angry
orange flames of a hundred wildfires. The wind whipped angrily around her, the
tattered remains of her ancient blue dress swirling about her legs, twisting
and binding her until every step was a concentrated effort. Still, though, she
never faltered in her progress, her thin body, wracked as it was with desperate
shivers, continuing forward as if no obstacle stood too great in her way.

Her eyes remained fixed upon the ground, her ice blue gaze following a path
which seemed as if it only barely scratched the fine veneer of sanity. Her mind
raced behind all this silence, her heart leapt, beat more free than she could
ever remember it having beat before. She strode forward, sure of her
destination, more sure than she could ever recall having been.

Above her, the trees grew continuously angrier in the ever-increasing gale,
their branches beating one another like the angry jabs of punch-drunk brawlers.
The clouds blew overhead with unbelievable speed, racing one another towards
the open sea on the other side of the Isle of Man.

Before her threatened the darkened haze of Castle Dubhaimid, the perpetual
darkness which shades the sheer stone outer walls a deep charcoal gray. As the
hour reached mid-day, imperceptible through the overcast clouds and the never-
ending darkness, the haunting bells in the greatest tower struck their haunting
tune, the ancient dirge which called the dubhaim to their greatest feast, their
inhuman voices raised in praise to their creator Chadul and their greatest
master, the crawling chaos Nyarlathotep. Not to be forgotten was Sgrios,
devourer of souls, who nourished them even as they caught not the Aisling
visitors so rare to enter their castle.

On she walked, unaware even as the fat drops of rain began to soak her gowns,
and the noxious sulfurous haze enclosed her, welcoming her fully into the
territory of the ancient caisteal.

All around her, the drums beat in their ancient rhythm, older than the Earth-
Sea itself. The drummers sat cross-legged around their instrument, their dark
robes covering all but their hands; some large, some small, some male, some
female, some pale, some ruddy. They softly pounded the stretched hide in time
to their own heartbeat, each one coming at the same time from the one before
it, all perfectly in unison. Around them, in a large circle, stood the
remaining worshippers, save one, the high priest, who lifted his arms high into
the air, crying out the ancient prayers in a loud voice.

Almost immediately, one of the worshippers dropped to his knees in the circle,
throwing his head back and raising his arms in supplication. His black hair
streamed back like a satin cape, catching all aspects of the golden torchlight.
He cried out in the old tongue like a thing possessed and a young woman with
hair as fine and smooth as a raven's breast dropped down elsewhere in the
circle. Together they cried out their prayers of glory and might in the name of
the dark gods, until the electricity in the room was tangible.

With a loud crackle like the heavens opening, a clear spark like shattered
crystal passed between the high priestess and her congregates. Tangible swirls
of darkness formed ropelike extensions from the ancient stone floor, twisting
and turning and knitting into an inversed tornado, whipping the unconscious
woman's ebony hair into a tangled mass.

Slowly, so much so that it was a barely noticeable transition, a mound formed
in the center of the whirling dervish, seemingly stretching the ancient stone
from its eternal placement until finally it separated into the distinct forms
of the dubhaimid. Smaller doglike pupas clawed their way from the stone,
heavily armored ghasts scrambled out, and two enormous gargoyles lifted
themselves from the stone, their huge wings flapping with the vile sound of
taught-strung flesh.

Finally, in a stronger gust of dark athar, srad, creag, and sal separated
themselves from the darkness, forming through their dark gifts the huge and
imposing form of a deadly Succubus. She stood tall, with her violet hair
hanging long down her back, from which two enormous batlike wings sprung. She
stepped forward, her long perfectly shaped legs swinging easily, her cold gaze
passing over, examining everything around her with coal black eyes, so dark
that could not reflect even the brightest light, though they were anything but
dull.

The horrified worshippers watched, unmoving, as the first crackle of lightning,
the greater power of air, was unleashed upon them.

## II - Attack

The moon rose slowly, the long beams slowly peeking over the low humps of the
mountains, crescent shaped as the uneven patches of earth sheared off the tops
and left them in beautiful ruin. Her slow ascent was nearly imperceptible, yet
far too quick. While she made her stately entrance, all the earth continued its
course, birth and death, life and love. The waves crashed into the shore with
immeasurable fury, white foam leaping from the waves, deep and dark blue as the
clear skies above. Overhead, the rain-slicked grass parodied the turbulent
seas, which glittered and danced like a rogue's pocket spilled over with newly
burnished stone.

Horses, fenced in only by the sea, set their steely gaze upon the distant
northern skies, where the faint glow of Kadath with visible to those who still
saw with eyes as old as the fae. Sheep, dark and miserable with the rain that
soaked through their heavy wool, huddled in mounds beneath the sparse trees,
munching on the sodden blades, dark eyes brooding.

On the other side of the hill, unable to be seen by the sea, small cottages,
the makings of a healthy-sized village, sat silent sentry. Warm yellow light
spilled out, illuminating the fat raindrops as they passed by, splattering into
the puddles already forming in the hard-packed dirt streets. From every chimney
rose a wisp of smoke, testament to the warm family tucked inside.

Not far away, behind the shelter of mountain, the east woodlands stood empty
save for their dark-lined inhabitants and a lone party of Aislings, their
swords slicing through wind and rain as easily as they hacked through flesh,
sal strengthening, srad petering out in the sudden sloppy deluge. From under
the dripping leaves of pink personaca, the fae watched, silken wings tucked
close to their lithe bodies, tiny ears pricking up from the honey curls of
their hair. Quickly they took to the air, whispering past the Aislings who
looked up not from their desperate fighting.

They flew up in a great cloud to the crest of the hill, the rain not finding
them, the light of the moon giving their flesh to a soft luminescent glow. Atop
the hill they did alight, finding each a perch among the delicate fragrant
flowers of betony. Again came the sound, the shrill piercing cry, and another
sound, not unlike the blasts of distant trumpeteers, far in the distance, yet
echoing sharply over the sea.

Without warning, the horses on the hill began a desperate race for the side of
the hill farthest from the sea, and the fae looked nervously at one another,
shifting lightly on their feet. Then they, too, made a dash back to the glades,
seeking refuge in the valley on the other side of the hills, hiding deep in the
cavernous interiors of the trees. The Aislings, finished now with their hunt,
driven off by the cold and stinging rain, made their way over the hills to the
small town on the other side.

Stopping for a moment to rest a stitch in her side, a female warrior let her
sword touch the ground, frowning slightly at the mud which covered her usually
gleaming gold armor. Her crimson cape, dark with rain and the black blood of
the goblins, hung like a lead weight from her shoulders. As she lifted her
sword to continue her journey, she took a long regretful look at the full moon,
whose light, had it not been occasionally obscured by the blackened clouds,
would have been enough to continue their hunt by.

Surreally, a winged figure passed in front of the darkened shadow of the moon,
huge, nearly obscuring it for a moment. From that distance, only a creature of
monstrous size could do such a thing. Almost as soon as this permeated the
warrior's battle-wearied brain, another creature passed, and another. A great
fleet of winged horrors. The warrior turned and shouted to her priest, a young
man now frowning at his tattered Zeus. The priest looked up and immediately saw
the creatures now flying towards them by the hundreds. He shouted desperately
and scrambled down the hill to the town, shrieking and waving his Zeus, waking
nearly every Aisling in the small town below.

Angered by the ruckus, they threw open the doors frowning, dressed only in
their nightclothes, feet bare, toes scrunching up at the unwelcome feeling of
mud. Out of breath, the priest pointed at the unwelcome visitors, now just
beginning to crest the final hill and descend upon the town.

The warrior lifted her blade and the two remaining wizards gathered their will
for an explosive strike. The first Gargoyle landed with a horrific fluttering
of wings, red eyes cut like rubies and twice as bright. A ghast scrambled from
its back and ran towards the warrior, falling at once to her blade, only to be
replaced by the next, as an entire army of winged Gargoyles began to arrive,
with ghasts clinging upon their backs and Succubae bringing up the rear, their
purple hair wet with rain, their blackened bodies slick.

Aislings spilled from the houses, swords uplifted and monkish feet pounding,
light wielded as deftly as the tiny roguish daggers and great explosive forces
of earth. The Dubhaimid fought with all the fury of Chadul, and Aislings with
all the passionate fire of Deoch. By morning, half the Aisling population had
been felled, but not one had fled, and for each which lay slain, four dubhaimid
had joined them.

By morning, there was only one question remaining, the one which sang from
Aisling lips like a desperate prayer. "Why?"

The trees reached down their cold bitter branches, clawing at their cloaks as
they rustled through the forests with their heavy loads. The stinking bodies of
the dubhaimid needed to be disposed of, and the pyre for the fallen had already
been lit upon the place of battle. The heavy pupas, with their stony armadillo
armor, were loaded onto carts to be taken off to the Kasmanium mines, where
they would be burnt in the fiery river which raged below the deepest pits,
underneath the earth. The ghasts were quickly turning into mush, shoveled into
aged barrels to meet their molten fate. The succubae, too human in their
darkness, were burned where they fell, but without the ceremony of their
Aisling kin. Bare patches of black earth remain, even now, at the end place of
these dark temptresses.


_Cliona Malkier al' Fae_
_Spiorad Acair_
_Deoch 10_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/ .
```

