# Ulick and Cliona

_by Cliona in **Dark Ages**_

_From Chronicles of Chaos, Book One_

Laughter rang in his ears as Ulick stroked his hands along Cliona's sides,
laughing with her as he slid his fingers along the fine silk of her gown. Half
closing her vibrant green eyes, her body shaking with laughter, she laid her
head back upon the ground, gasping.

Ulick smiled and reached out one hand to stroke her red-gold hair, wavy with
natural curl and long enough to hang only fingertips from her smooth round
flesh. Clio opened her eyes and smiled at her lover, one hand reaching out to
touch his chin. Smooth with shaving and unblemished by nature, he was, in her
eyes, the most beautiful man in Temuair. His eyes, dark brown, were the darkest
that anyone in Mileth had ever seen. In the neighboring towns, Abel, Piet,
Undine, and Rucesion as well, no one knew of eyes like these.

The pair of them had come through these woods for the noble purpose of
traveling to town to buy food, for their families that lived on the outskirts
near Abel. Instead they now lay upon their backs in a field of grass, sheep
occasionally coming to nibble at their toes, gazing at the clouds overhead, one
hand clasped around the other's.

Ulick and Clio had been friends since the very beginning.

As the plague wore down and the last people were dying, some heard of the peace
that reigned in Mileth and hoped that the healers who remained, descendants of
the Hy-Brasyl, could take away the disease which captured them. Piling
themselves into boats and setting sail for parts unknown, they had unknowingly
orchestrated their own deaths. For if a single person united under Ealagad got
on that ship with them, their fate was sealed and within less than a week, the
ship would ride the waves a ghost, unmanned and with nothing left of humanity
but their strange black blood, tainted with the darkness.

Ulick's parents had come aboard one of these ships in the hope of finding
refuge for themselves and their newborn son. Even after the others had died
aboard their ship, Ulick survived, found after three days of hunger by Clio's
father, a sheepherder named Owen.

Owen took Ulick home to his wife to be nursed by her, for she had only given
birth to her first child, Clio, days before. From then Clio's family adopted
Ulick, and they both called Owen and Niamh their p√†rant.

The two young people became lovers shortly after Clio came of age at sixteen
years old. Their relationship, forbidden by the elders, led to a controversy
the likes of which Mileth had never seen, before or since. After being taken to
the elders of the town for judgment, the two swore up and down that never again
would they engage in contact which could be construed in any way as anything
more than the actions of an average brother and sister.

That evening, they went into the forest and made love for the first time. They
rationalized their relationship to one another saying that they had done
nothing. Ulick was not a blood relation to Clio, and she was not one to him.
Their relationship was nothing more than the eventuality of a young man and
woman in a lifetime friendship.

Now, the two lay quietly on their thick green carpet, weak with their tickling,
calm and contented in their own quiet world. While Ulick lay silent, his gaze
turned to the sky and his mind focused upon clouds in the shapes of the same
woolly sheep that grazed only a few strides away, Clio remained deep in
thought. One hand crept up toward her neck, her fingers lightly brushing a
smooth red stone in a gold setting that hung forever around her neck.

She considered the first time they lay in this field, during the summer when
the sheep went into the summer pastures in the hills to the east. They had come
here in the night, under the full Growing Moon, their skin creamy and soft in
the moonlight. Clio lay upon Ulick's bare, strong chest, filled with the life
of him, her face bared to the stars as Ulick's lips poured soft kisses along
her shoulders.

Ulick, meanwhile, reveled in the intimacy he found that night in the empty
pasture. Always treated by his father as the farmhand, never the son he saw in
Clio's two younger brothers went hunting with their father, tending sheep and
sharing family secrets worthy only of those with the family name. Ulick,
meanwhile, split wood and cleaned up after the sheep, all the chores that no
one else cared to do for themselves.

When Clio first let Ulick touch him, it was the simple brush of a fingertip
across a smooth side. If he remembered correctly, it was only earlier that
summer, when the two were sitting up in the branches of the oldest nut tree on
the farm, wondering about what lay beyond Mileth. Nothing more than lazy
afternoon fantasizes, until a wasp no larger than Ulick's fingernail threatened
Clio's fair skin and she fell to the ground in a heap. Ulick had scampered down
the tree after her, his hands running along her body, searching for broken
bones or abraded skin.

All he had found was a small wedge-shaped rip in her bodice, out of which
peeked creamy skin, burnished pale gold by the sun. Ulick reached out one
finger and brushed it gently across her skin, eliciting a gasp from Clio's
lips. When he jerked up his head in fear, horrified he had brushed against some
hidden wound, his eyes had not even reached hers before her lips, softer than
the breath of the summer's afternoon, pressed against his.

Ulick's most treasured pleasures of theirs was the few moments while Clio lay
upon his bare flesh, surrounding him in ways he had never before imagined,
holding him close and warm, as comfortable in the amber twilight of evening or
the blue dawn or the pitch blackness of his bedroom, hardly more than an
adjoining section of loft on the second floor of the barn. So far removed by
his family, Ulick's only human comfort lay in Clio, whom he treasured more than
life itself.

***

Most young people in Mileth, upon reaching a coming of age, found themselves in
training for their future career path. Clio was to undertake apprenticeship to
Mileth's leading priestess, Devlin, educated under the fae, her future set in
healing, in caring for the people of the town after their eldest priestess'
succumbed to inevitable, incurable death. Clio's three younger brothers,
mundanes like her family, had been in training from their father, educated in
the world of handling, breeding, and shearing sheep.

While they took care of such things, Ulick took care of the remaining chores,
never once offered the tutorial given to his adopted brothers by their father.
In essence, Ulick was nothing more than their slave. Even the maternal bond he
shared with Clio's biological mother, the result of his being raised off her
milk, was stunted by the influence of Clio's father.

While Clio was prepared for her upcoming entrance into the Priesthood, Ulick
found himself denied the rights of passage, forever locked into this world of
mundane servitude, never allowed into the Temple of Choosing.

Long tutored in the customs of the people he had come to accept as his own, he
did not feel compelled to try to argue this situation. Of course, it tore him
apart to be left alone, particularly by Clio, but no one had ever challenged
such a predicament before. It was accepted.

Clio, on the other hand, was very much disturbed by the knowledge that not only
her lover, but her brother, was being denied the future everyone else she had
known had been privileged to pursue. She saw the spark in his eyes, she had
seen him commit feats of agility she had never experienced in any one else she
had known, save for one rogue who came to Mileth from Rucesion for healing.
Very often even she, who had known him longer than he had known himself, could
lose him in a crowd or people or a grove of trees, only to have him step aside
deliberately, revealing a hiding place so clever no average human could have
discovered it.

His mind, to her, was forever a puzzle. And hers was no less to him.

Once, they strayed from the streetlights as while walking from the fields, and
came upon a wolf as it stalked its prey in the night. The animal made a single
pounce for Ulick, the closer of the two, only to fall short of his quarry. The
animal had somehow caught afire, struck down by a bolt of hot white light that
materialized out of nothing but air. When Ulick turned to see if Clio was all
right, she stood with her palm outstretched, her chest heaving with the effort
of what she had done. She had been the one to set that animal aflame. No one
did that, save for the wizards in training for their whole lives.

And yet now Ulick was faced with a future of slave labor and Clio to one of
devotion and healing.

***

Niamh, daughter of Siva, mother of Cliona, sat quietly beside the stove,
watching her youngest daughter set the table, eight place settings in all,
while Clio, the oldest and nearly ready to choose her path in life, sat quietly
in the windowsill, brushing her red-gold hair and watching the boys gather the
sheep from the fields.

The three youngest boys worked lazily, their minds set on no particular task,
moving with only the most vague semblance of intention. Meanwhile, Ulick,
dressed in only a pair of dusty work pants, threw his back into the effort,
calling the dogs and watching them run, poking the sheep into their pen with a
long staff, watching intently as every-so-often one of the dogs ran by. The
dogs were the only companions he had outside of Clio; they shared his bed at
night, curled up at the foot, more friends than working partners.

Ulick looked up from his work a moment and caught Clio's eye, absorbing her
smile and returning it in kind, complete with a friendly wink which almost
seemed to say "I'll take care of your secret". Clio sighed softly and nodded
and gave her hair a careless toss over her shoulder, then looked back to see
Ulick standing with his hands perched atop his staff, his eyes gazing dreamily
towards Clio, his mind far away.

Quicker than could be perceived, Clio's father came up behind Ulick and knocked
the staff out from beneath him with his own, throwing the boy off- balance and
then taking that split second to deliver a fierce blow to his back, along the
line of his fragile ribs. Ulick fell to the ground, gasping and trying to curl
in tighter around himself, his prayers dealt toward Danaan that he could only
shield his soft, unprotected belly.

At the sight of this unprovoked cruelty Clio screamed, slipping off of the
windowsill and running barefoot across the field dressed in only her simple
silken shift, a gown appropriate only for an evening at home, nothing like
running through fields where any person walking by may see her. Clio ran to
Ulick, throwing herself upon him, her hands running over his battered body
while her glare remained fixed upon her father.

In an effort to protect Clio, Ulick forced her hands away from him, pushing her
aside, trying to get her to stop trying to heal him. Without even realizing it,
Clio knelt, muttering incantations and spells, her hands cool and burning at
the same time. Ulick moaned softly with pain and laid his head back, one hand
upon his chest, his eyes closed.

Clio stood, her hands clenched into fists, her small frame quivering with
pent-up fury. She stared her father in the face, rage stilling her features
into an unreadable mask.

"How Dare You."

Owen glared at her, his expression, if anything, slightly bemused.

"How DARE you raise a hand to him! Do you not see that he is the only son
you've got who even cares whether or not this job gets done? Do you not see
that he would gladly be taught everything you have to give while these three
children care nothing for it?! This young man is an Aisling, but you refuse to
acknowledge that! You can't even see this young man; so blind are you made by
your indifference!"

In a single motion, Owen raised his staff and forced it against the side of
Cliona's head, knocking her to the ground.

***

Her first sensation, in the darkened haze of growing consciousness, was of
something cool and wet against the side of her head. When she turned away from
it, pain exploded in her skull and she cried out, which didn't help the pain
much. She settled on a whimper but relaxed, suddenly, when a warm hand came
down upon her shoulder, holding her still. Soft words, spoken in her ear by a
voice no louder than a breath, set her into a world of peacefulness she knew
only in the arms of one man. The faint taste of berries remained upon her
parched lips and she realized how close she had been to entering the beyond,
lost to Temuair and all the world.

When she finally opened her eyes, all she saw was Ulick, silhouetted against
the pale dusk sky, gently wiping blood from her hair. He reached over her from
her left side to minister to her, and his face lay tantalizing close to hers.
He smelled of sweat and something indescribable, something she could only label
as purely him.

When he finally noticed the pale emerald eyes watching him, he sat back on his
heels and sighed softly, shaking his head with discontent. "Why do you do that
to me, Clio? Why can't you just leave me alone to get what I deserve? You only
get yourself in trouble..."

She shook her head ever so slightly and sighed, sitting up slowly, Ulick's
hands strong around her back, supporting her nearly dead weight. "I do it
because I love you, Uly."

"Clio..." He shook his head, stroking her hair. "You can't stop him."

"I hate to hurt you, love, but my father is not the final authority on how to
live."

He lowered his eyes, turning from her gaze as he slowly rinsed out the torn
cloth he had used upon her fevered skin.

Something deep inside Clio clenched tight, forming a hard ache within her
chest. She reached out a fingertip and lifted his chin. "Love, I'm telling you,
you are worth more than the way my father treats you. You're an Aisling."

He shook his head and glanced toward the house before carefully lifting himself
to his feet. Carefully reaching down to help Clio up beside him, he kept his
eyes upon the ground. "They're watching us." Clio lifted herself to her feet,
her eyes, too, downcast. Her voice was suddenly weary.

"Take me to bed, Uly."

He nodded and stroked one large hand over her hair, smoothing out bits of grass
and leaves that clung to her curls. Ulick walked her to the house, his arm
around her as he led her passed the family, who sat in quiet domestic bliss in
front of the fireplace, each absorbed in their own activities.

Her father sat sharpening the small dirk Clio carried with her into town as
protection, while her mother sat stitching a satin gown. The three boys amused
themselves with games of stones and pebbles on the floor before the fireplace,
and the three large shaggy dogs lay in a heap beneath the window.

Ulick led Clio to her room and laid her down in her bed, tucking the covers up
around her, pressing a loving kiss to her forehead. He turned to leave for his
own room when her quiet voice sought him through the darkness.

"Ulick?"

He turned. "Yes, love?"

"Can you stay with me for a bit?"

He smiled and walked back to her bedside, lying beside her on the bed, wrapping
his arm around her belly. "It'll be all right, love. I'll always be with
you..."

"I love you, Ulick."

"I love you, Clio." He bent his head down to kiss her softly. "Get some rest."

With a soft sigh, she fell asleep.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Cliona_Ulick.html .
```

