# Stitch in Time

_by Cliona in **Dark Ages**_

> _Elements were unchained. The elements danced out escapades on the night sky,
> or buffeted young souls on sweet zephyrs, waves, rising hills, or warm gushes
> of harmless fire. Humanity lived in harmony with all that was. Whether out of
> goodness, or lack of need, no one was tempted to lose his soul for wont of
> power._

Sighing wearily, Cliona pushed long waves of brown hair from her face. Copying
the _Seanchas Temuair_ of old was a difficult enough task, but penmanship had
never been her strong point or her joy. Her fascinations lay not in the
ordinary tasks of priesthood, but the extraordinary: healing and the discovery
of knowledge. This knowledge, the secrets of the _tuatha de danaan_ , she had
carried with her since the first moments of insight in becoming an Aisling, and
having this history repeated time and time again when so many more worlds of
information lay in waiting....

Surely there had to be easier ways of gaining knowledge, like the consistent
rushes of insight attained by her fellow Aislings, but, alas, the hunt was not
her path, not her calling in this life. Her talents lay in the healing and the
words, not once was joy found in the death of another creature, _Dubhaimid_ or
other.

She laid her quill pen upon the oaken table, sitting back in her chair, letting
her gaze wander across the expansive library of Loures. Books lined each shelf
and she, on the order of Devlin, was to content herself with seeking her
knowledge and intuition in menial tasks.

_Och! This was too much to ask of one young woman!_

Cliona uncrossed her legs angrily, then sighed and stood, letting the blue
silks of her gown rustle about her. She could see the mountains of the
Kasmanium mines in the distance and the tiny flickers of light in rich Abel.
Beyond there, Mileth, her home, where her future lay in waiting for her. No,
she shook her head. She wouldn't allow herself the luxury of thinking of times
to come, of letting her mind wander from the task. She was a priestess and she
must do as her teacher required.

If only it wasn't so...

She turned and sighed, moving away from the window, gathering up her parchments
and inkwells, gathering up her books and texts and random drawings. She moved
to leave, but gasped, startled, when she caught sight of a young man standing
in the doorway, watching her. Not allowing herself to appear flustered, she
pressed her books against her chest, taking stock of the Aisling before her.

That he was a mundane never crossed her mind, for even the dullest of Aislings
held within themselves such a spark as this. She had already begun categorizing
him before she consciously recognized him as standing there, gauging by the
musculature not so pronounced as a warrior, the gleam in his eye not one of
mischief but of consideration. A monk, perhaps? But what possibly could a monk
be doing in these clothes? _Could_ he be a warrior?

The vows of poverty kept them, for the most part, barefoot and defending
themselves with only fists and skill. This young man, though.... An enormous
two-handed sword hung from his belt and well-fitted suede boots covered his
feet, while a cloak of velvet and fur hung from his shoulders. His appearance
itself was no less fascinating. His hair, a dark brown, was long and hung in
curls to his shoulders. His eyes were gray, soft, inviting, yet at the same
moment dangerous.

Cliona felt a mixture of fear and elation at the sight of him. Part of her
ached to run to him, to put her arms around him and feel every part of him,
while another part of her, the thoughtful part, told her it was wisest and best
to run home as quickly as possible and forget she had ever laid eyes upon him.

She sighed, shivering to her bare toes, watching the young man make his way
across the room. She took in all of him. No jewelry save for silver earrings
and a ring of emerald about one long finger. He looked perhaps to be no older
than her, but somehow not the same age nor younger. How could that be? Some
part of her sung _ageless_.

He reached out to her and she started, not having realized in this time that he
had crossed the room to her, laying one smooth palm against her cheek. "It's
alright, priestess. I could never harm you."

Cliona steadied herself on the corner of the table, letting her papers down
upon the smooth wooden plane between them. "How do you know me?"

"I see you. You and your papers and your prayers all night long. You're a
creature of the night, you know this."

Cliona forced back a smile. All her life she had been troubled by that fact
that she could neither sleep at night nor keep awake during the day. But how
dare this unknown tell her such private things?! She met his eyes a moment.
"And if you see this in me, what does that ordain you?"

He laughed, softly. Normally such a sound would echo throughout the library,
vibrating off of every surface and every high, arched ceiling. It seemed,
however, that his laugh was meant for only her ears, and only her ears did it
reach. The thought frightened her, as most things regarding this person seemed
to do. "I am a _draoidh de dorchadas_ , small one. You who seem so fond of the
old tongue."

Cliona frowned slightly, not at the translation, but at the implication. "A
magician of darkness? What kind of a creature is that?" The horrifying thought
that he might be a minion of Chadul clutched her breast.

The young man shook his head, laying his hand upon hers, for she sank into a
rough wooden chair as the moment overtook her. He sat beside her, one velvet
fold of cloth brushing against her leg with a shiver. "I serve Danaan with the
same fervor as you, little priestess. You mustn't worry, I won't steal you from
your vocation."

Cliona blinked, her blue eyes sharp. "Then you must tell me what you are doing
here. I'm here as a guest, if anyone finds out someone's entered Loures and
they weren't informed....and if I knew and didn't tell them, I could be
killed!"

The young man shook his head. "It's alright. I've lived here longer than most
of the royal court. Longer than the king himself. Longer than any Aisling
you've ever met."

Shaking her head, Cliona looked to the doorway. "That can not be."

The young man smiled, shook his head. Cliona turned to look at him, but he
turned away. How strange. Every Aisling she'd ever met would eagerly share a
smile with her, yet he would not?

"You yourself resent this education, Cliona, you yourself complained of being
unable to seek the knowledge stored in these volumes. Who are you now to tell
me that I can not be, when, surely as this table we sit before, I am."

"I never told you my name."

He nodded. "This is true."

"What are you?"

The young man stood and moved around the edge of the table, dropping to his
knees before her, pressing himself against the satin of her skirt, straining it
across her knees. "I am all you will have me be."

She quaked with fear and pulled back, trying to stand, grasping for a scream in
the thick, smoky air of a hundred burnt candles, her feet not grasping a hold
upon the floor, now waxed smooth with the ages. The young man held her wrist
firm, pulling her against his chest, stilling her with nothing more than the
soft breath of his exhale upon her hair. "I won't hurt you. You are the only
one willing to listen to me."

Air caught in her lungs until every breath was a gasp. "Not for much longer.
Stop with these tricks of the tongue and simply tell me who you are. Reveal
yourself to me."

He sighed, almost wearily. "My name is Baidheil. I come from a place you dare
not go, and from a time Aislings do not yet recall."

She shook her head, forgetting, for a moment, that a young man she did not know
was holding her against her will, pressing her against his all-too- willing
body. "I don't understand you."

He released her gently, easing her back into her seat, moving away, allowing
her to compose herself. He walked to the window and gazed out upon the far-off
mountains. "I'm so frightened that if I tell you the truth you would never
believe me."

"You must let me make that decision for myself, Baidheil. You will never know
if that is true if you do not try to help me understand what it is you're
talking about."

He turned to her. "I was born in Finach. I watched the world under the division
between Chadul and Danaan, and I watched Ainmeal in the days when he bestowed
this honor upon your family. I watched the Shadows War and I cried in horror
and pain at all the heartache these things caused. I watched them defeat and
cage the Dubhaim and all of this I watched from the shadows."

Cliona shook her head, pushing her hair away, tying it with a strand of ribbon
once used to tie a scroll, a scroll now torn in her struggle to retreat from
this young male visitor. "This can not be possible. This is not something that
can be done, Baidheil." She stood and walked towards him, reaching up to brush
back his soft brown hair. "I can heal you..."

Laughing, he pawed her hands away. "I'm not mad, _maighdean_ , I tell you the
truth."

She eyed him, unconvinced by this show of playfulness. "Explain to me the magic
behind this, then."

"I don't understand the magic behind it."

Cliona shook her head, turning. She watched the candles burning brightly in a
hundred small brass and gold candelabras, hanging in chandeliers from the
ceiling, illuminating the room like countless tiny stars. Elaborate paintings
covered the arches, depicting the history of Temuair and the struggles for
power, as well as the inevitable friezes illuminating the glory of the realm.
Deep violet drapes of velvet hung before each enormous arched window, while
shelves and shelves of parchment scrolls and leather-bound volumes in all
colors lined the walls.

His hand was cool upon her shoulder, a gentle presence. "Cliona, I don't know
how to explain this in any way which might make sense to you."

She turned. "Why me?"

He thought this over for several seconds. "Something in me told me you would
understand this."

"How can you live for so many ages? You're so beautiful... like in the legends
my mother told me when I was a child... you look like a spirit out of Hy-
Brasyl."

Baidheil smiled, but not without the ache of sorrow. Cliona gently took his
hand. "What troubles you so? Why do you come to me?"

"I want you to help me."

"You who claim to have lived for ages I can not begin to count, would like me,
a priestess _barely_ old enough to bear a child, to help you? How under the
light could I help you?"

"I need your blessing. I need to know that what I've done is not unforgivable."

"What have you done?"

He sighed, his voice soft, sorrowful. "I've taken the lives of countless
Aislings. I've sent the souls of thousands to Sgrios and I shall continue to
until the day comes when I no longer roam this land. I've done this for as long
as a can remember, without remorse for a single life. Until this evening, I was
ready to take you."

Cliona held her breath, watching his soft, expressive gray eyes. "Why would you
do such a thing?"

"To live. To take from you what I need to survive."

She watched him quite closely now, turning to press herself against him, one
hand laid upon his chest to hold him away while the rest of her pressed him
close. The spell of his eyes, soft gray like clouds heavy with rain, drew her
into a state she could never fully explain, caught somewhere between awake and
dreaming.

"What is this that you need?"

So caught within his eyes was Cliona that she did not fully grasp even her own
actions until, quite suddenly, pain cut into her fingertips, and she drew back.
Her fingers had grazed the edge of Baidheil's sword, slicing her soft skin with
a razor's edge, blood dripping down the wound and onto the floor in a rapidly
growing pool. Quickly, she whispered the beginnings of a weak incantation,
wincing through her words until Baidheil gently took her hand and brought it to
his mouth, closing his lips around these petal-soft fingers, softly suckling
her.

Cliona tightened as if a string had closed around her, drawing all parts of
herself together in perfect harmony. She hummed for this young man.

Baidheil closed his eyes and Cliona felt, enclosed even in the unbearable heat
and moisture of his mouth, his tongue softly lapping at her fingers, his throat
twitching as he came to swallow her blood. Within moments, perhaps too soon, he
pulled away, letting her hand down, licking the salty blood from his lips.
Cliona was breathless.

"I need this blood, Cliona. It's all that keeps me alive."

She watched him for long moments, breathing slowly to regain her balance. "Are
you the only one?"

He shook his head. "I don't think so, but then again I can't be sure. I've
never left Temuair to look for others."

The thought of a world beyond the seas frightened Cliona. She chose not to
think of it. "How did you come to be this way? Were you born like this? I
don't..."

He nodded and stroked his hand across her cheek. "I know. It's a lot to try and
consider. I wasn't born this way. Back... a long time ago... when they were
just discovering darkness. Right before everything fell to the Dubhaim, there
was all sorts of magic. I was only as old as you are right now and I didn't
understand any of it. There was magic and my teacher.... I only wanted to be a
warrior, just like you thought I might be the moment I walked in here. He... I
don't know where he got his ideas, but one day he brought in a man... he had
been Hy-Brasyl."

He paused a moment, letting this sink in to Cliona. "This man... he put his
lips to my neck, he drank my blood! I didn't know what was happening and there
was nothing I could do. When he was done the old man told me to do the same....
Cliona, I didn't know."

She nodded, placed a hand upon his side, urged him forth. "The old man died. I
thought that I had killed him, or I thought that that was what happened. I
didn't know. But I became the creature that he was. I survive on blood,
Cliona, and I don't know how to stop it. I need you to help me."

She shook her head, horrified at what he was telling her. She crossed the room
and folded her arms beneath her breasts, shaking. She watched the floor as she
paced, her mind considering all of this. "Have you tried ...?"

He shook his head immediately. "No! I can't.... I can't go without it, Cliona.
It's a thirst a thousand times a human's thirst for water."

She watched him. "You don't think you're human?"

"I can't be."

Cliona stopped pacing a moment. "It's against my nature to condone someone
attacking and killing another. I don't accept it even against the creatures
tainted by darkness, not of the wolves or the kobolds or even the goblins."

"But what if the sacrifice of their life allows me to live? If it's the _only_
thing which allows me to live. How can that be wrong? This isn't my choice,
Cliona."

She turned to him, raising her arms in exasperation. "What do you want me to
do, Baidheil? Why do you even come to me if you give me no choice but to
condone what this is you're doing?"

He took ahold of her arm in the same grip as before, pulling her against him,
at the same time both violent and gentle. "Did you ever have something eat away
inside of you until you had no choice but to tell someone, even if you knew
that person would never survive long enough to respond?"

Her eyes went wide with shock. "Baidheil, no..."

He bowed his head and planted a soft kiss upon her neck, feeling her body go
slack against his own. Without another moment's pause he entered her flesh,
feeling her hot blood pour into him, thick and rich and sweet, pure and
crimson, gushing into him, nourishing him with purity and innocence more rare
and delicious than any other.

She dropped to the floor with nothing more spectacular than a heavy thud, her
hair spread out in a halo about her, long and brown and soft. Her eyes closed,
her face perfectly serene, untouched by pain or fear, her eyelashes long and
dark upon her pale cheeks. Heavy footsteps moved away from her, fur and velvet
rustling softly as he dropped her hand, allowing it to fall upon the tight
satin bodice of her gown.

The door creaked at it swung shut, metal latched clanging loudly enough to
awake anyone nearby. Alone, in the darkness of a hundred candles burnt to the
wick, Cliona moaned.

_From Book Two: "A Stitch in Time"_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Cliona_Stitch.html .
```
