# Manach

_By Cliona in **Dark Ages**_

The young monk clenched her hands into fists at her sides, her gazed fixed upon
the approaching bat. It took everything she had within her not to look in the
other direction, the direction of the other hunting party. There, a wizard
threw her hands into the air, crushing their foe, a scorpion of considerable
size, with a wall of water. The creature nearly split apart at the impact,
dropping an iron bracer to the floor, the possession of an Aisling long
forgotten, his adversary now vanquished, his gift to them that of his items,
lost to Sgrios. A loud, clear male laugh rang throughout the musty crypt, his
joy like fire into her heart.

Did he not see the pain he caused her, the agony of her separation from him?
Wearily, Liadain relented and turned her gaze, her breath catching in her
throat at the sight of him, beautiful as ever. Sweat beaded on his chest and
bare shoulders, his body tanned from hard work outdoors and well muscled all
the same. He was unlike any Aisling she had ever seen. His dedication to the
monk's path was full and total, reaching far into himself as all aspects of his
life reflected it. He spoke of peace in gentle tones, his eyes reflected the
compassionate, reflective nature of his soul. In a hunt he could become so
absorbed in the motion of fists and feet that it took him a moment to realize
that his opponent lay upon the ground in a heap, blood pouring from its wounds,
heaving in the final throes. Then, quietly, with unshakable dignity, he would
kneel beside the creature to claim his prize, then walk away, granting it the
final honor of its silent return to Sgrios.

His hair, black and fine and soft like a raven's breast, was left damp by sweat
and steam of the crypt to gleam with light of the torches upon the brick-lined
walls. Nearly black eyes gazed up from under unruly locks of silk, dark brown
and foreboding, but with all the capability for tenderness. Strong callused
hands hung by his sides, swaying easily as he made his way with the group for
another kill. His black pants allowed easily for movement, remaining still to
cling to his skin, revealing firm thigh and calf muscles, bare feet upon which
he balanced easily, kicking into the creature's side and head.

Iron bracers encircled thick wrists, his skin soft, as one can expect from any
young man, emerald rings upon his fingers. Veins stood out, firm, lining each
strong arm, the flow of blood and life through him almost palpable to her, even
across all this distance.

Liadain became lost in the rhythm of his fighting, kick, punch, ambush and
kick, punch once more, ambush. Once, however, he lost his balance in a high
kick, crashing to the floor to lie there a moment, blood seeping slowly from a
cut on his head, reaching up slowly, moaning, unsure of himself. An instant
before Liadain felt sure she would bolt to be at his side, a priest came to his
rescue, the auras of her healing surrounding him, sealing his wounds and easing
his pain even as she watched, shocked as always by this small miracle of Light.

The monk returned to his hunting, kicking the creature harder than before,
furious at this intrusion into himself, taking his vengeance, crying out
angrily with each kick, each punch, so that the entire rest of his party
stopped to watch this display. All except the priest. In his anger, all grace
was lost, all fury took over caution, and she wildly healed him in order to
keep him simply with enough strength for the next kick, the next punch...

Liadain watched the creature, a huge snarling centipede this time, lay limp
upon the floor, all life gone from it, her beloved standing over it, breathing
heavily, weary, drained. His priestess was given time to remove the curse of
fury from him, and he sadly looked over the remains, pulled the venom gland
from the creature's throat, and turned apologetically to his party, haunted
until the moment came when a voice broke the silence, forcing him once more
into raucous laughter.

Long ago this nameless beauty had been a friend, her best friend, she could
truly say. She had laid with him in the fields and forests of Undine and spoke
the secrets of her heart, her tears soaking into the soft scratchy wool of his
ragged green shirt. He had told her the truth of all things, of the truth and
beauty and light of Glioca that she had never before seen. He had shown her all
things beautiful, all things right and kind.

He had shown her love, and she had given him all that she possessed. Her love,
her heart, soul, and body, she had given him and asked only for his acceptance
in return. For hours they debated the mysteries of magic, or the cosmos and all
things contained within the world. They rode to the plain of Ardmagh on
horseback and picked the fruit of the vine and the cherries of the trees for
pennies, then sold them to the priests of the region for enough money to sail
to Abel, then walk on to Mileth. They used the money from gathered fruits to
rent their one tiny wooden room at the inn, to pay for the rings and the
garments to cover themselves as they learned their meager skills.

Together they slept in their small bed, his arms wrapped around her, her face
buried in his chest while she dreamed the dreams of the day when together they
would profess their love in the glade of the faeries in the distant eastern
woodlands. They stroked back wet hair from their weary foreheads as they soaked
in tubs of hot water in the inn's bath, content and quiet with the company of
one another. They together explored the mysteries of the flesh, the quiet
moments and those of questions, of curiosity, of sharing experiences and ideas,
of launching into nude debates of political views, arguing for or against the
rule of Loures over them all.

Soon, however, as they both grew more somber, more weary and impatient with the
study, the fighting as they were encouraged to do all that they could to defeat
the other, Liadain found herself beaten, red potions passing through her lips
almost as quickly as one could be made for her. Liadain grew silent, bitter,
seeking silence through her tears, left behind by him as he went to train with
the more skilled fighters, while she, heartbroken and weak, stayed behind,
growing weaker, falling astray.

One day as she laid in her bed in the early morning, the golden light of dawn
spilling onto the covers, his arm laid over her, his lips trailing over her
shoulder and neck, he pulled her close to his chest, urging her to turn to him,
that he had something he needed to talk to her about. He spoke in soft words of
love and fate, of beauty and joy in the only person he had ever shared his soul
with. He spoke of duty, also, of the Path and the undeniable truth that they
all must follow their destiny. That he must, for a time, for an item unknown in
this part of the world, go to the caves of Piet. That he may be gone for as
long as six months, that he must leave her.

He told her it might be better to leave her now free to find another than to
leave and perhaps never return, to perhaps not find that red potion at the last
moment, and have her heart broken by the cold grip of Sgrios, rather than the
warmth so like his own arms around her.

The next day he embarked upon the journey without so much as a goodbye from
her, so destroyed by his perceived disregard for her that she felt she could
never again look into those intense black eyes. She watched through the windows
of the inn as he walked out of town, towards Abel where his ship awaited him
first to Rucesion, then on to Loures and the foul-smelling caves of distant
Piet.

And now once again he stood before her, rich with the rare items lost by the
creatures of Piet, skilled beyond her wildest expectations. He was a lovely
young man while she remained plain with her crimson hair and worn bodice, feet
bare, skills not yet polished to even the dullest of gleams. He laughed with
his comrades, the priests and wizards giving time the duty of replenishing
their resources while he honed already near-perfect skills upon them, ambushing
grumpy rogues and playfully teasing them that they could not do as he did. His
laughing cut at her like so many small blue daggers.

She was running towards him before she knew it, leaving her group behind, a
small cry escaping from her throat, hurling herself forward, lifting her feet
for a powerful kick. He stood with his back to her, not hearing the commotion,
not knowing of the centipede inches from his back, threatening him with fang
and venom, in one moment this creature of darkness ready to claim the brightest
light in Liadain's universe.

She crashed down upon the centipede with a hoarse, angry cry, fists pummeling
the creature, ambushing and punching and kicking with all her might, skills
coming to her which she did not know she would ever possess.

It only took a moment. The creature soon lay upon the ground twitching,
dropping from its corpse, already decaying into darkness, a great mythrill
bracer, a unique and powerful object. Liadain lifted the object and slid it
onto her wrist, letting the crumbling leather one drop to the floor. At the
same moment, a withering hiss escaped the dying centipede as its body and
essence was cast into the realm of Sgrios from which it first emerged. Insight
after insight rushed through Liadain's body, taking her breath away with the
beauty of the world, the knowledge of Glioca, of the gods, of the history of
Hy-Brasyl, of all the Aislings to come before, of strategy, of fighting all
types of creatures throughout Temuair in all its aeons of history.

Finally, what seemed to her like years later, Liadain lifted her head, coming
face to face with her love, radiant in all his beauty as she, too, was radiant.
She glowed with the rushes of insight, her muscles hardening with strength,
wisdom finding her, her body growing tall and willowy and lithesome as he, too,
was. Overcome with pride for his young love, he wrapped his arms around her,
pressing her close to his chest, stiffening sharply at the first hot, wet
droplet upon his cooling flesh. He lifted one large hand to stroke her crimson
hair. "What's wrong, my love?"

"Do I mean so little to you? You think that in a moment I would go to another
because you are not there to satisfy me? Are you so vain? Am I so terrible for
you to think that?"

He shook his head adamantly, his grip firm upon her. "Not at all. It is I who
made the error in this. I should have invited you to join me. I should not have
let you stray so far in sadness. I should have seen what lay beyond your heart,
what stirred your soul. I can never ask for your forgiveness, for this sorrow
will never be quenched."

"I will grant you this forgiveness if you grant me this one thing."

He stepped from her iron grip, meeting her soft blue eyes with his black ones.
"I would give you the moon and the sun if it pleased you."

She watched him closely. "Tell me the secrets of your Aisling heart."

He blinked slowly, drawing her into his arms. "Where would you like me to
begin?"

_The story of Liadain Inntinn, Monk_
_Winter, Deoch 4_
_From the writings of Cliona Malkier al' Fae_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Cliona_Manach.html .
```



