# In the Name of the Goddess

_by Dartanian Lestor in **Dark Ages**_

_A Short Story from "Where Sleeping Heroes Lie"_

There are many stories that lead into parables or morality plays. Good versus
evil. Light versus dark. Continuation versus destruction. There is much too
often an ultimate good and ultimate evil somewhere in there. Life is not so
shaded. There is a dark side to all good and a good side to all evil; one
simply needs to search deep enough with their heart to find it. This is the
story of one such lass who found both....

## Part 1: The Balance

_"By Danaan, I haven't time for this! Im going to be late!"

Heels clicked on the hard stone tiles of Abel's quiet streets. They echoed
throughout the town, reverberating off the dark walls. Lights shimmered over a
lone figure, purple tresses flowing neatly behind her. Darkening some hairs,
highlighting others, no matter which road she turned down, she was strikingly
beautiful. She always prided her luxurious hair, soft chin, pouty cheeks,
crimson lips, and glimmering emerald eyes. They glimmered with more than just
the lamp's light; She was an Aisling, well respected, loved, and usually quite
punctual. At this moment, however, she happened to be rushing to hold mass.

"I hope they wait for me this time. They know I'm the most versed in her
teachings. Even if I _don't_ always watch the moon's position..."

Looking up again at the night sky, she scowled, picked up her skirt and rushed
faster.

***

The mass in front of Glioca's Temple had quite a gathering. A priest with deep
black hair was holding a book in hand, raising his prayer beads high in the
air. He mumbled some arcane words in the old tongue, head always tilted down to
the book. He then gave the beads three shakes, jingling in his hand, and rose
his head up to address the congregation.

"Dear followers, we have gathered this day to worship the ever-kindly goddess
Glioca for all that she has given to us. May our love and compa..."

The speech was cut short. Rather, the priest continued talking but every
worshipper's ears were turned to the cacophonous panting that was behind them,
drowning all else out. Eyes followed ears to see the purple headed girl garbed
in an elaborately made mystic gown. The loops and tucks were mesmerizing as it
clung to her form, slightly sweaty due to the running.

The priest slapped the book shut when he noticed what was occurring. "Well
then...and so the late blooming flower crawls into our midst once more. I am
pleased that ye could take time out of your busy schedule to join our humble
gathering, 'Lady Calosia'."

The normally beautiful face wrinkled its nose in a sneer. "Brother...Kentren, I
could....go without....your sardonic...slights right....now," she gasped out.

Kentren smirked and motioned to her with the book. "Well then, now that our
head priestess is here, we can really begin, can we not? Well, as soon as the
lady catches her breath of course."

Calosia glared at that last comment, but was still trying to swallow more air
than she could handle. She hung her head, hands on hips, and tried to calm her
breath. It was an unladylike pose, to be sure. Yet, then again, Calosia never
_did_ care much about the roles set for her anyways. Going against the grain
was always her style, so it was a shock when she decided to join Glioca.
However, her constant tardiness didn't surprise anyone. Most likely she was
celebrating her new Fae lover, Warren. Glioca was all for love, so no one
complained if she was a bit late....well, anyone except Kentren, who always
loved to tease her.

"Good evening. We are gathered here under the light of this full moon when it's
at its highest to pay respects to the goddess, Glioca. As Danaan is the Sun, so
Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

Chanting was repeated by all. "As Danaan is the Sun, so Our Lady Glioca is the
Moon."

Holding her prayer beads high in the air and with her head held just as high,
Calosia continued. "Glioca's love and compassion shines in all, you've only to
find it. Even in the great darkness of the night, the light shines down upon
us, warm and comforting. Glioca's so-called enemies are Gramail and
Ceannlaidir, but even she has a place in her heart for them. Gramail, for his
unheartened view of the world. Gramail cares only for right and wrong, he does
not seek to search an Aisling or mundane's heart. As Danaan is the Sun, so Our
Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"As Danaan is the Sun, so Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"Ceannlaidir dared lay his hands upon the fair lady's flesh. Seducing her to
traverse too close to the mountaintops and away from the sky that is her home.
She carries this burden in sorrow. Ceannlaidir's lust for power blinds him from
compassion and thus we stand opposed to the decision." Everyone's arms raised
high at this. "Let us know, fair brethren, that although we stand opposed, we
seek not violent means to do so as those of Ceannlaidir would. We seek to guide
those fallen back to the light. Ceannlaidir seeks violence, carnage, and war.
This we oppose. We do not wish any innocent lives captured and slaughtered. As
Danaan is the Sun, so Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"As Danaan is the Sun, so Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"And yet there is balance. For as much who art opposed to Glioca's compassion,
there are just as many who would follow her and support her willingly. Cail and
Deoch, our fair Goddess's allies, take this task Cail seeks only harmony with
nature. Serenity and love with all things. He is also Lady Glioca's beloved
son. This is proof of her love. Although wrongfully begotten by Ceannlaidir's
seduction, she holds nothing against his offspring with her. Peace comes
through compassion and thus, he is our ally. As Danaan is the Sun, Our Lady
Glioca is the Moon."

"As Danaan is the Sun, Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"Finally, Deoch, formerly god of the rapture and debauchery. However, Deoch
came to know the love that Glioca cherishes. Danaan touched his heart and
turned him to spark us Aislings gathered here. We now have imagination, the
ability to see and be touched by our world around us. It is a great gift indeed
to know these. Deoch, now god of Light, has touched us all with his show of
compassion. As Danaan is the Sun, Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"As Danaan is the Sun, Our Lady Glioca is the Moon."

"Now we must go out into the world. Love, compassion, and mercy does not stop
here. Show this to all Aislings and mundane alike. In the name of the Goddess,
amen."

"Amen."

By this time, Calosia was bowing her head slowly in reverence. As the
congregation applauded and slowly scattered, she sat slowly down on the steps
and sighed. She agreed with Glioca's teachings with all her heart but she
wondered how many felt the same. How many only sought Glioca so that they could
plea to heal scars, how many are Gliocans in name but not in practice, how many
still desire death, pain, and destruction. As these thoughts were racing
through her head, she felt a strong firm hand clasped her shoulder. She winced
a little but then looked up and smiled at Kentren who was standing next to her.

"Despite your tardy nature, ye always let lose a fine mass from your lips."

"Thank you, Brother Kentren. But I always find myself wondering if it's enough
to keep them from straying. I wish no harm on any Aisling."

"Aye, those that do are a bit disturbing."

At this, Calosia nervously let out a laugh, " _That_ , dear Brother, is your
biggest understatement ever."

Kentren smirked. "Ye talked about balance. There _is_ balance in this world,
Calosia. Us tuatha oft talk about wanting balance, but deep down, we seek
control."

Calosia turned to him, absolutely flabbergasted, "Brother, you can't seriously
think..."

Kentren simply swayed his finger in front of his face, quieting her. "Now, now,
Sister Calosia, hear me out. Do ye wish that there be no evil left in this
world?"

Calosia looked down, ashamed. "Well...yes, but..."

Kentren smiled. "Ye see? We talk that balance is 'necessary' and that that is
what we all wish, but really 'tis about control. People try to deny it, saying
'tis only for good and all that, but control is control. I, personally, do not
think it would be all that horrible if good _did_ prevail, but where there is
no alternative, there is a control." He sighed.

"What is it?"

"I grow weary sometimes of telling ye younger ones how to do your job."

Calosia giggled and punched him in the shoulder playfully. "You obviously think
too much of yourself, dear Brother." She then sighed too and relaxed all her
muscles. "I do see your point though. It's not our way to force the belief on
others. We would like everyone to believe as we do."

Kentren smiled. "Ye've read the tome in the First Library of Loures? The one
that ends by stating 'Yet every Light casts a Shadow?'"

She solemnly nodded.

"The opposite is true. Behind every Shadow lurks the light."

"Hmm?"

Kentren put a finger to her lips to stop her from speaking. "Think on it,
Sister. I must be off."

Calosia just stood blinking as Kentren walked off and into the gates of Mileth.
She sighed and hung her head.

"I'll _never_ understand that man."

## Part 2: The Betrayal

The door swung lightly back and forth on its hinges as Calosia released her
delicate fingers off the handle. She'd heard the ruckus from outside, but she
didn't realize just how much noise the tavern walls masked. What might have
equaled the trotting of a few horses outside turned into a cavalry unit within.
The din was wholly unbearable, so much so that the sound didn't seem to come
from any mouths, simply stagnate in the air and drift around. Calosia would be
surprised if anyone actually understood the person that they were talking to.
Of course, no one seemed sober enough to really care.

"Calosia...hey!"

She thought she heard a faint whisper. It was probably more a shout but it got
lost in the nimbus of sound...

"Calosia!"

There it was again, slightly louder than before. It sounded like her name but
she wasn't quite sure. The noise was still too much.

"Hey Calosia! Love!"

_That_ did the trick. She finally saw whom it was coming from. A well-tanned
man of average height was waving and smiling at her. She smiled widely back.
Warren, of course. He had been the one to call her there after all. He looked
the only one there that wasn't intoxicated. A couple slumped in the corner
who'd had a little too much winced at the sudden increase in volume. Everyone
else was too busy with their own conversations to really care.

Calosia found a nice stool to pull up next to her fluffy brown-haired beau. Her
arm went instinctively around his lithe waist as her head rested on his
shoulder gently. Closing her eyes, she sighed.

"I missed you."

Warren laughed lightly and spoke as softly as he could over the chatter and
clinking of glasses. "Missed me? Why love, you've only been away from me for a
few hours."

She nudged him playfully and smiled. "You silly. You know any second away from
you is torture. You're so good to me...you know that?"

At that, he smiled. "I don't do anything that any of your dozens of admirers
wouldn't do. You _know_ you have quite a following, Calo."

She snuggled closer to him. "I don't care, War. You're the only one for me. You
know that."

"You know, your gown and position is drawing a lot of attention..."

Calosia shrugged and pressed her reddened lips delicately against the side of
his neck. "Let 'em stare. There's nothing wrong with what we're doing. We're
simply two lovers showing their affection to one another."

Warren's body trembled softly with delight. He'd heard that Calosia was a
passionate lover, but he'd never known. No one had. Oh there had been rumours.
There had been heresay about the wildcat known as Calosia Gravvrion, but none
had actually took those _seriously_. Only Warren really knew the truth and knew
she really _was_ quite well versed in the art of seducing her prey. If she got
it in her mind to do something that Warren was unsure about, it took a little
less than three minutes before he would be close to his spine melting.

She swirled a finger lightly over his chest between the grooves in the jupe.
"Please Warren...stay with me tonight?"

Warren smiled. "I could never resist you for anything, Calosia. You know that.
Shall we go?"

She rested her head against his shoulder and clung tightly onto his arm. "Yes,
let's."

Warren tossed some coins on the bar that gave a satisfying rattle and picked
himself off the stool, Calosia still attached. She'd never felt so happy,
content and peaceful in her life. Maybe he was the one to stay permanently
with. She never usually was one to settle down for the rest of her life, but
Warren seemed like the type she would be more than willing to in a heartbeat.
He swung the door open that creaked on decrepit hinges and walked arm in arm
with Calosia clinging tightly to him. The moon shone brightly where they
walked, the only noise being an owl's soft hooting. The light from stars above
lit up her face with a sense of belonging. She forgot utterly about her doubts
those few nights ago. She felt that this was the happiest night of her life.
Better ask it now while the mood is right. Her face turned towards Warren's,
whose eyes and chin also turned back towards her, almost instinctually. Their
lips were only hovering a breath away from each other as they spoke.

"War?"

His hand reached out to touch her soft flowing locks, gentle violet in the
moonlight, which made her mouth spread into a smile. "Yes, love?"

"Do you think...well...do you think there's a..."

_No point in getting squeamish now...In the name of the Goddess, go for it!

_ "Doyouthinkthere'sachanceofusbeingmorethanwearenow?" she blurted out quickly,
all in one breath.

Warren just looked at her confused. "I didn't really catch that."

She took a deep breath and tried again, slower this time. "Do you think there's
a chance of us being more than we are now? I mean...do you think? Marriage?
Children? Bringing those joys into the world? Is that for us?"

Warren blinked slightly and was taken aback. Calosia knew that she'd pushed too
fast. She should have waited but she was too eager. Too excited. Wanted too
much not to feel loneliness anymore. Until...

"Yes. I do."

It was Calosia's turn to blink in shock. "What?? I mean...you really do?"

"I was planning on asking on your birthdate, but since you brought it up..."

Warren slowly lowered himself and knelt on one knee, taking off his heavy
armour so that he looked more formal. Calosia's heart felt like it went past
her throat and broke out through her mouth. She just knew that her cheeks could
have easily been confused with ripened tomatoes at that moment.

"Calosia....we have been seeing each other, loving each other dearly for
several moons now and I always wondered what your full feelings towards me
were. But now that I've seen them...will you give me your delicate hand in
marriage?"

Calosia was caught speechless so could only manage a simple nod. Warren smiled
and held her tighter than he ever had before. She felt so warm and safe, she
never wanted to leave.

"Well, well, well. I guess congratulations are in order."

The snide, sarcastic tone came from high in the trees, accompanied by a harsh
clapping, each slap of palm against palm matching Calosia's heartbeat. She
turned to see who would be so rude and saw a man dressed in all black. She
couldn't see his face fully but his eyes that _did_ show held an utterly icy
stare.

"It makes me almost ashamed that I have to dispose of you, Gliocan scum."

"Gliocan scum??? Who are you?! Tell me now!"

Calosia could have almost sworn she saw the cloth over the man's mouth shift
into an insolent smirk. "That's privileged information, 'love,'" he replied,
mocking Warren's endearing tone, "All you need to know is that Ceannlaidir
beckons me to remove your kind from this earth."

The assassin flipped off the tree, dagger drawn and posed to attack. In a flash
of light, Warren unsheathed his blade and connected, knocking the dagger off
and into the tree, splintering it.

"I warn you, I'll protect my love with my life."

The assassin ran with almost inhuman speed and yanked his blade out of the
tree. "I have no quarrel with you, behemoth. Simply get out of the way and let
me do as my god orders."

The assassin lunged again, only for Calosia to dodge and smack the assassin's
face with her fist. He clutched his cheek for a second, then lifted the cloth a
bit to spit some blood.

"You're quite the little dubhaimid, aren't you? Come on. Take your best shot. I
dare you."

He jumped back and flung the blade swiftly towards Calosia. She was trapped and
fixated like a wasp with a flame. She would have perished easily if something
weren't obstructing the path of that blade. It was Warren's chest.

" _No!"_ Calosia screeched at the top of her lungs, rushing over to him. If he
had been wearing his armour, the dagger wouldn't have gone too deep and an ioc
would have sufficed. As it was, the blade was buried to the hilt. The damage
was too extensive and she hadn't been expecting this so all her beothaichs were
left in her pack at home. She didn't like to feel helpless so she kept calling
out "Ioc!" to no avail.

Clutching her hand in his own, Warren coughed up blood. "I guess..I won't
make...that great a husband...like this, huh? Sorry..." His eyes closed slowly
and heavily, never to open again.

A normal girl would feel like crying. Calosia was no exception. At first, she
felt the tears of despair and sadness welling up in her eyes. But that didn't
last long. The tears never came, the despair turned to anger, anger turned to
hatred, hatred turned to utter loathing. She clenched a fist as the assassin
calmly walked over and pulled the dagger out of Warren's chest. "Pity that had
to happen. That's what happens when you try to stem Ceannlaidir's wishes."

"You filth. You utter disgusting pus-bubble on the face of this world. How
could you? You're so calm about this. Let's see _this_ calm you!"

Calosia's eyes flared up as her hands clasped around Warren's sword. His limp
hand gave it willingly to her. She'd never felt emotion like this, but reason
escaped her. All she saw was red, the crimson colour of Warren's blood. The
moon was red, the ground was red, and most of all, the assassin was red. She'd
make certain to that. Her sword dug deep within the assassin's gut before he
could utter a sound or make a move. His eyes lit up with realization of what
happened as he looked down, then lifted his head with the last ounce of
strength he had to glare at Calosia. She saw her own loathing reflected in his
eyes. She was too full of emotion to realize it then but the eyes would haunt
her, saying the same thing: _You disgust me._

The assassin's body went limp and collapsed on Warren's sword, on top of his
unintentional target. Calosia's arms folded over both bodies, and she buried
her head and cried.

## Part 3: The Forsaken

"Lady Glioca, please heed me, a loyal follower of thine."

Nothing. It wasn't the nothing that really bothered her. It's that it was still
nothing. It had been well over 3 moons since that incident and she had been
praying constantly. She could only come up with one conclusion: Glioca had
forsaken her.

"What is it, Sister?"

Calosia looked up to see the kind face of Brother Kentren smiling down upon
her. Not even that could cheer her up, however, and she sighed without a word.

"Now I can tell something's really bothering ye, Sister. Ye always have _some_
time of response, usually a retort."

"It's the Lady Glioca. She doesn't wish to answer my prayers."

"Ye haven't done anything to offend the Goddess, aye?"

Images of that night shot through her, a lightning bolt traveling down her
spine. He couldn't know about it, he simply couldn't. She slowly shook her head
and lied, "None that I can think of."

"Well then...only one thing I can think of," Kentren kneeled down and shifted
his mantle, clasping his hands so tightly that the knuckles turned white.
Calosia smiled and knelt herself down as well. Kentren mumbled the standard
"Our Lady" prayer while Calosia sought the Goddess's image in her mind. The
image grew and shimmered until she seemed alive with a holy light. Calosia
could swear she could feel the Goddess. She came! She actually came! Calosia
was so undeniably happy and wanted to embrace the Goddess, but then stopped
herself. There wasn't the normal kindness that the Goddess was known to
possess. It was a stern, almost disgusted look. Words overshot the image's lips
and bore themselves straight into Calosia's mind.

**WHY HAST THOU SUMMONED ME? I WANT NOTHING TO DO WITH FILTH LIKE YE.**

Calosia was shocked, confused, hurt, and heartbroken. She stood there
dumbfounded looking the Goddess. She'd never known such coldness. Finally the
words filled up weakly in her mind. _My Lady, I...I am sorry for any offense
I've caused you...I did not mean...

**THOU DIDST MEAN IT, MY CHILD. WHY WOULDST SOMEONE CONTINUE TO DO SOMETHING
MEANEST NOT THEM TO DO? THOU HAST FORSAKEN ME, CHILD. NOTHING MORE.**

_My Lady! Please! I..I acted on the impulse of seeing my love die at the
hands of hatred...something in me snapped..._

**KNOW THOU DOEST THAT "SOMETHING"?** The last word seemed obviously foreign
to the goddess as she played with it.

_I did...not mean to do it._ She paused for a second. Didn't she? She secretly
felt better at the revenge. She would have rathered Warren and her living
happily. But given the choice, Warren's blood leaking on the pavement, the
snide assassin smirking at her, she would have gladly done it again, she knew
that...and Glioca knew. A bile filled in her throat and she felt quite ill. All
her words felt false at that moment and she decided to remain silent.

**THOU HAST WENT AGAINST ME, MINE CHURCH, MINE WILL,** Glioca rattled these
off, sounding like a spoiled child crying out that all these "toys" were Hers
to play with as she saw fit.

_My Lady, please. If you would only restore my Warren, I promise you'll see a
love never known.

** REQUEST DENIED. THOU ART SUPPOSED TO FOLLOW THE LOVE AND MERCY OF ALL HUMAN
BEINGS. THOU DIDNST SHOW MERCY WHERE THE MOST DUE IT WAS. THOUGH THE DEATH OF
THINE LOVER SADDENS ME, IT IS NOT REASON ENOUGH NOT TO SHOW MERCY AND
COMPASSION. NOW GET OUT OF MINE SIGHT. **

The figure shimmered away and turned lifeless. Calosia's head flew back. and
she gasped. The Goddess had been so cold...it's completely against what her
training and teaching had taught her. She thought that nothing was above the
Goddess's forgiveness. Realization set in and she stood herself up slowly,
clenching a fist.

"I don't need her. I'll not simply bow down. She won't even allow that..."

Kentren looked obviously puzzled and snapped out of his prayers. "What are ye
talking about, Sis..."

Calosia held up her hand, cutting him just short and replied coldly, "Glioca
has abandoned me."

Puzzlement turned to shock and outright disbelief. "She can't? She would never
turn on her most loyal follower! She'd never turn on a living soul!"

Calosia let out a laugh, but it had no humor to it. It was nervous and edged.
"Oh, you don't get it, do you Kentren? Everything we've been taught is wrong.
Given the right circumstance, even Glioca can be just as spiteful as the other
gods. And I'm not as loyal as you think. Well I won't stand for this." The next
was muttered under her breath, "Curse Her. Glioca, if you hear me, I serve you
no longer. You hear me?? _I will not serve._ "

## Epilogue

The rank stench of decay filtered through the air. A Cruel stood on top of the
castle walls and howled loudly at the moon, sending a shiver down the spine of
all in Rucesion. The moon was not out this night, and the stars cast an eerie
glow on the castle. It seemed to vibrate shadow, looming on that isle as a
giant stone face, grinning and cackling, ready to swallow any that would enter.
Most were not foolish enough to enter this late at night. The foreboding castle
claimed only one. She chose to come here though, and the jagged black dagger
made her intent clear. It was not meant to be inserted into any dubhaimid
flesh. Only human. The hilt was wrapped in a blood-red leather. A scream
permeated the chilling air as she plunged the dagger into flesh. A cold bony
hand clasped her arm and tried to slowly draw away. Calosia looked up. It was
the grim spectre of Sgrios staring at her, but different than what she'd heard.
There was a soft azure glow emanating from the slits that would be its eyes if
it had any. If she didn't know any better, she'd think the vision was pitying
her.

"Come to take me, have you? It's about time."

The figure shook its head.

"No? Why? Am I not good enough for _your_ realm, too?" She seethed out the
last, a low hissing sound emanating from between her lips.

Again, the figure shook its skull slowly from side to side, grey hairs making a
slapping noise against bone. Then it spoke into her mind.

**WHY?**

"Why? You have nerve to ask me _why???_ You took my only love from me. All I
can do is join him."

**NO.**

"What else can I do? Do you have a way to bring him back then?" She clutched at
the tattered rags, tears streaming down her cheeks and dripping on the dust
that covered the old bones. There was a puff that dispersed with each drop.

**CANNOT. NO RESTORATION. NO PREVENTION.**

"Some god of destruction you are! You can't even prevent it!"

The apparition let out what sounded like a sigh or a hacking out dust. Then it
turned its pale visage back towards Calosia.

**THERE IS SOMETHING YOU SHOULD SEE.**

The bony form snapped its decaying, filthy fingers and what appeared to be an
hourglass appeared in his hand. Except instead of sand as there usually is,
there was a strange liquid in the bottom and top. It was a cherry red and
dripping slowly into the bottom. On the bottom of the hourglass was a plaque,
inscribed _Calosia Gravvrion_.

**THIS LIFESBLOOD. YOUR LIFESBLOOD. WHEN PERSON SUPPOSED TO KEEP HEALTH, BLOOD
IS REDDISH COLOUR AND STAY IN TOP.**

It snapped its fingers again and the hourglass changed. This one was shaped
basically the same but the liquid was different. It was opaque and completely
void of any color at all. The black of it actually seemed to absorb the colours
around it as well so there was a slight warping near it. Calosia hesitated but
touched the glass gently. Then she saw it clearly. The plaque read _Warren Mendrin_.

_"What is this? Some sort of sick joke you like to play?"_

** WHEN PERSON'S LIFEFORCE BE SNUFFED COMPLETELY, THEN LIQUID BE TURNING BLACK. I
GO ONLY BY THESE TO KEEP PERSON IN REALM. HAVE NO MORE POWER THAN THEY WHEN IT
END.**

"What does this have to do with anything? Many die and are consumed by your
hand. What do you care of 'timing'? You drag others to an untimely end all the
time."

**NO.**

"No?"

The vision of Sgrios shook its head once more. **NO. NO END BRING I UNTIMELY.
EVERY CREATURE ON WORLD, 'TEMUAIR' AS CALL YOU TUATHA IT, HAS ITS TIME. THAT I
FOLLOW...BUT...**

The image looked a little withdrawn, as if it were trying to brace itself
against some unseen pain.

"But what?" Calosia actually seemed genuinely interested at this point.

The withered hag clutched the bones where its stomach would be and laid on the
ground, moaning a bit.

**I....I HUNGER.**

Calosia, though she had forsaken the goddess, still held all the compassion.
She knelt by the figure's side, concerned, "What's wrong?"

**I...HUNGER....**

"The insatiable hunger..." Calosia said solemnly to herself, "I've heard about
this. I think I understand. You do not wish to keep anyone in your realm if
it's within your power, do you?"

The apparition could barely move from the hunger pains, but Calosia thought she
saw some movement in the skull. She wasn't sure which direction the skull had
nodded, but she'd already suspected her theory. "So you take a scar to satisfy
your hunger. A piece of what the Aisling once was. Right?"

Again, an indistinguishable nod.

"But if it is not someone's time, they gain the scar but in that they are freed
from your realm."

The skull barely moved, simply quivered a bit.

It didn't matter that Calosia didn't see any of the answers given. By this
time, Calosia was absolutely ignoring all around her. She was thinking aloud.
"As long as we have the lifesblood, we are not trapped in his realm. When we
run out, our time has come to pass on. Everything has a time in which the life
ends...."

She looked down at the still figure. "And you, your only motive in this is
common survival. Any that do not need to stay with you are not forced, and you
would prefer it that way..."

A pitiful groan came from the clutched-over Master of Decay.

**I HUNGER....**

Calosia slowly helped it up, lifting it into her arms and embracing slightly.
It felt odd to her at first, but it also felt...right. "You're not evil at all.
You act as any animal would, looking for something to feed on. All you want is
what everyone else does: to exist."

**I HUNGER....**

Calosia looked into the pitiful eyesockets. The lights inside them had turned
gray and weak. She sighed lightly and something snapped in her heart.

"Please...take me..."

**WHAT?**

"Feast on me...if it will satisfy my new god, I'll do it gladly."

The figure was hesitant at first, then brushed the curtain of dark violet off
her shoulder and bit into it. Calosia arched her back slightly, steadying
against the pain, but at the same time, it was half-euphoric. She had finally
found her calling.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/ .
```

