# Speaking with a Goddess

_by Elfette in **Dark Ages**_

There was a chill in the air that morning. Walking through Mileth I tried to
step in the shadows, dodging the busy people around me. My thoughts where
mostly on the day, and of time I had hoped to spend with my beloved. I had been
dreading mass that night. All the masses seemed so crowded and I strained to
listen to the words of love and encouragement, only to hear gossip and town
talk of the people around me. The crowds always drowned out the
Priest/Priestesses sermons. I would watch as their mouths moved and only wish
that I may feel what they were speaking of. At times I would fear for my life
at the masses, the summonings had become a most frequent occurrance.

Finally I arrived at Glioca's temple. I put my veil on and walked in . It was
unusually empty and cold. My sounds echoed as I dropped to my knees before the
great statue. I closed my eyes..

Before I opened my eyes I could feel the light hit me like the sun itself had
fallen. The cold room had filled with a warmth I had never felt before.I opened
my eyes and saw her!

She was the most beautiful woman I had ever looked apon. My face twisted in
shock of the vison of her. Right away I knew it was the goddess herself.
Glioca, the Moon Goddess stood before me. But she was not dressed in her normal
attire. Her dress was long and black, as was the band that secured her golden
hair. She was as always smiling still but yet a tear was rolling down her
cheek.

I strained to speak. "My Goddess..I am not worthy of this gift, why have you
come to me of all your servants?"I asked her in a shaking childlike voice. She
answered me in a soft and loving voice, "My child, you are the one who needed
to see me, for you have lost faith in me."

She continued, " You avoid the crowds when you come to pray to me, therefore
you negelct the people who need love and friendship in their lives."I turned my
eyes from her in great embarassment.

"My Goddess, I have wronged you." I kissed her feet.

She lifted my face with her hand,"You have not wronged me my child, but you
have so many that need help here, speak to them words of encouragement."She
smiled.

"You have opened my eyes, thank you my Goddess,"I said as I lowered my head.
She looked saddened again and spoke," These are hard times for all of my
children, however, we must keep love and compassion for all things in mind,even
for those who would do harm to us."

She stepped away from me. " I must go but please remember I am with you, I
stand at the masses.When you can not hear the message just close your eyes and
think of me I will bless you and help you understand."

She wiped her tear and the room filled again with a blazing light. When the
light subsided she was gone.

I had found my faith again. My heart had been filled with that light, that
amazing light of her kindness.

I went to the inn and I sketched the vison of her that I had seen that day.I
put all of my heart into that sketching.Then after it was completed I made it
my offering to the Mileth altar. I was overjoyed again by the people around me.
I stepped out of the shadow and stood in the light, with a smile streched
across my face.

_Elfette_
_Humble Servant of Glioca_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Elfette_Glioca.html .
```
