# The Sounds of Demise

_by Eliya in **Dark Ages**_

 _Pant pant._

Breathe heavily, as the thudding of hardened leather boots on stone echoes...

Continuing on the... Suicide attempt? Aspiration for a quick death? Maybe it
was just a whim, running in front of them like that. Thats a possibility, for
the draco are beautiful in their own deadly fashion, with the gleaming spikes,
crystaline horns, and teeth dripping with a strange, glowing saliva.

Most of those who end up with their innards spilled because of a draco ended up
that way simply because they were curious as to how they look up close, and how
it would feel being shocked, gored, and having your skin start to boil away all
at the same time. Quite an experience, as a few of the short-term survivors had
claimed before their sparks of existence finally ceased to be.

In any case, there _was_ a specific reason that she was running ahead of a
group of the creatures. She just couldn't remember what it was.

The odd chortling noises they made were slightly soothing to her, and she
paused momentarily with a half-drugged look upon her face. Then, recalling that
she had family and friends to get back to, she began running again, the noise
of her feet chasing her as surely as the draco were. Her breath came in hissing
gasps, distracting her from the sounds they made, for now.

There were many gleaming spots in the darkened caves floor, where the creatures
had drooled as they followed. Their shining, razor talons made scrapes that
burrowed into her mind through the ear canal, making the insides vibrate at an
unnerving pitch and sending extra ripples through the air which helped that
nerve to 'un'.

Their own panting and wheezing wasn't really that; for them their versions of
panting and wheezing sounded vaguely like a kind of music. The only slightly
pleasant noises they make are when they are on the hunt.

Another reason why aislings have a tendancy to be lured by their mysterious and
slightly lurid killing behaviors. The sounds they make while they slice apart
the layers above your rib cage, then peel the ribs out to lick at your
still-beating heart and nibble on your lungs are supposedly lovely to hear.

Though, she suspects that it is an aspect of the glowing saliva which makes it
enjoyable. Halucinogen most likely, or the dying are just so happy to hear a
sound besides the snapping and slurping of their bodies being torn apart and
eaten that they believe any sound better than a snarl is glorious.

_Ha, indeed._

The gleaming hide appears ahead, and the scrape of hardened leather veers to
another direction across the flat stones. There are shadows behind the
stalagmites, which she hides in for a moment. But it does not do much good, for
the draco have a sense of particles floating about in the air which would rival
any other hunting creature.

_Thuppa thuppa._

The sound of the heart, which would be incredibly bad to lose. A melodious
whine, and glowing spittle flies through the air, disturbing a few grimlok into
flight, their dark and wispy hair literally flying behind them. Then there is
the sudden snap of the gleaming tongue flicking out to grab one, and the
cracking sound of draco jaws shutting on the tiny morsel.

The whine in response to perhaps the sound of her heart beating. Not very
agreeable with the situation.

_Oh, no. Not agreeable at all._

She was curious as to how the demise would come, the feel of empty spaces being
created where once were warm, lumpy, squishy things, but there is also the need
to make it home to consider. She has a companion who needs her. And things such
as good friends, lovers, do not come as most things do, a breath of fresh air,
a drink, the easily attainable. They are not wished to be lost in demise,
though some would argue that demise is the ultimate curiosity lessener, even
though they have not personally experienced it.

A deep quiet breath is good. Then time is more available for escaping the not
necessarily desirable demise the beautiful and wonderful creatures would give.
Demise is something for another time, since she has reasons to live.

 _Drip drip._

There is a sound nearby, and she is compelled to be silent as the snuffling and
melodious wheezings continue where more light is present. Is that a kind of
sneeze, as a few flecks of something glowing float through the air into the
darker dark? She does not wish to be so near to the hypnotic salivations.
Skitter along the wall like a crab and skirt past the creature to get farther.

_Snort, whhhfffff._

Discovery is sometimes good, sometimes less desirable. It is the latter in her
situation, but she is compelled to continue, so running faster is the chosen
option. Other options do present themselves, but they are less desirable too,
and she has had enough of that in a short period of time.

After some time, which is really nonexistent, there is a larger clearing
between stalagmites. The looser ground and a few rolling, smaller stones do
trip her at times, and she is being tripped at this time, which she still
thinks is nonexistent.

A glow from a small hole in the roof of the caves bathes her and the earth in
monochromatic, soft blue hues. This bit of aesthetic property is enjoyable to
her, but paying attention to it is not one of the things that is going through
her mind. Survival is going through her mind, as the instinct to live becomes
more prominent, even ahead of the curiousity to know the sounds of demise.

Fortunately there is a large stone growth sprouting ahead, and the hardened
leather of her boots provides enough protection for her feet for her to climb
the tree-like stone outcropping. She does so, and sits as silently as she can,
trembling in one of the branch-like growths of stone.

The draco decide then that they will disrupt her hiding with an appearance of
their own. Climbing higher does not truly protect her, as they have ligaments
and strong bones and fibers in their hind quarters.

 _Fwwp, chsshhhh._

A swipe of a glorious talon through the stone, close to the proximity of her
makes her cry out as the branch she is residing on momentarily is clawed from
underneath, and shaken a bit. Tears and sweat drip from her brow, as the
realization that she is going to die breaks through the wilderness of her mind.

"Leave me alone, you horrible nasty overgrown vipers!" The string of
vocalizations from the soft chords located where the breath is drawn from comes
out of the frustration and desperation.

In answer are lovely snuffling and wheezing noises... Not so to her ears, but
so to theirs. Then scratching sounds and vibrations shiver through the very
palpable air as the base of the stone tree is shredded, in fewer moments than
she had previously surmised would be required for such a feat. The growth _was_
a large one.

After a short time, which really does not exist, there was a giant crashing
noise, with many resulting vibrations, those not merely from the crash itself.
Vibrations through the earth, and through her as the air chooses to leave her
lungs. It is a unique sensation, that. The whooshing of the air as it makes its
important and split-second decision, based on factors of pressure and stress.

But she thinks not on this most wonderous of truths, for there are the visuals
of a dozen less five draco prowling in a tightening ring, making some harsh
noises, indicating that they are pleased with eachother. She cringes and covers
her head with her hands, whimpering.

A soft, slightly gutteral and pleasant sound erupts around her, and looking up
there is a giant maw declaring something in their strange tongue and eyeing her
with clear eyes. This is confusing to the girl trapped under a limb of the now
shattered growth. Is she supposed to be alive still? Is it not the time for
demise, and the lessened curiosity the demise will bring?

She is lifted from the toppled stone tree by gentle talons. Perhaps gentle for
them, but several punctures form on the limbs being dragged. Dragged where, she
is curious to know. But as all things have lessened curiosity in the end, the
belief exists that the curiosity will ebb in a short amount of time, which
really does not exist.

She is dropped into a circle of the seven draco by the seventh one. Limbs
spread as she looks upwards, feeling as if floating on soft grasses under a
blue sky, bathed in the monochromatic glow which will soon consume her
existence.

The draco which gently dragged her from the toppled stone growth to this circle
stands on its powerful and glorious hind limbs and snorts into the air, seeming
to belch forth a luminousity which gracefully floats over her, making a sneeze
result. Chortling from the gathered draco, the wonderous creatures, results in
the chain reaction.

Following, her limbs are secured to the earth by elongated, thin, strong,
metallic spikes driven forcefully through the joints, making cracking noises
and resulting in pained and extremely loud screams. The draco makes a malicious
swipe at a fellow creature, and the fellow bows down its head to snuffle at the
ground, spitting a bit of the glowing saliva onto her bare and bleeding feet.

The first draco, which she has named Lahkim in her mind, takes a gleaming and
beautiful talon, and slides it gracefully in a vertical fashion starting from
the chest and veering off slightly down a transportational limb. Lahkim tilts
its head a bit to listen to her screeching and agonized vocalizations for a
moment, then coughs once and drenches the bloody and slightly torn being in the
glow which is its saliva.

She immediately quiets, and gazes at Lahkim with awe and wonder.

The draco motions for another one, and that one steps up to her and slices
through the worthless fleshes above the ribs, ripping the skin from the front.
The victim suffers the most delectable agony as demise generates more intense
feelings than anything else ever did. Save for one time... Which does not
really exist, and therefore the present is merely intense feeling and demise.

Lahkim leans forward and twists the long, slender talons around a lower rib,
and rips it from her form. She screams again, and is once more silenced by
glowing spittle in the face, soaking through and being pumped by the heart,
being swallowed, inhaled, blinked away.

Her body jerks as each successive rib is removed, creating empty spaces.
Finally comes the tongue of the draco wrapping sensuously around her beating
heart, cooing and making soothing noises. The other draco swarm the limbs and
begin shredding and tearing the flesh from the bones, while Lahkim continues to
make empty spaces in the center, leaving the heart and lungs for last. The
intestines are thrown to a baby draco which has wandered towards where its
parents are feeding.

_The world begins to dim._

The glow absorbs her into it as her senses overload. The draco licks at her
face before burying its own into the ripped open cavity in the center.

At the end, near the demise, there are some things in existance. No more
companionship, or truth, or sensory inputs from further on. The sounds of the
draco, the glorious creatures, as they take your life to absorb it into their
own...

Are, _truly_ , indeed, wonderful.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Eliya_Demise.htm .
```
