# Among the Faeries

_by Flyss of **Dark Ages**_

The moon hung low and full in the clear black sky, encircled with a faint fiery
nimbus. Her book sat forgotten in her lap as Flyss stared up at it though the
open shutters.

_A blood moon_ , she thought, and a keen sense of disquiet shivered down her
arms. Such a time promised hunters increased stamina and success in the kill,
but it also fed Sgrios; under a blood moon, less experienced hunters felt
compelled to take foolish chances. But the reddish hue was also a blessing
time: a time to wed, a time to induct new members into a motley or guild, a
time to take any forever oath.

_A time for all things new._

As if her thought needed reinforcement, a ripple of sympathetic pain cascaded
through her abdomen. Yes, the blood moon was a birthing moon, too. It was time
to find her mother and then her sister.

It was time to go.

Zofilia sat at her own fire, pounding dried herbs in a stone mortar as she
hummed a folk tune under her breath. Flyss stood in the doorway for a moment,
studying her mother's face in the flickering light. It was her own face still
to come, softened with age and framed with pale blue-green hair threaded with
silver. Flyss pushed back the hood of her cloak and rapped her knuckles on the
wooden lintel. Zofilia looked up and smiled a greeting.

"Smell this personaca, wasn't this a good batch? You'll have to take some home
with you."

_Mother_...

Zofilia reacted to the sound of Flyss's voice in her mind just as if they were
having a spoken conversation. "I couldn't find any hydele this time, but, maybe
tomorrow."

_Mother, we have to go._

Zofilia straightened up, the bunch of herbs she held between her fingers
temporarily forgotten.

"What's wrong?"

_It's Raeven's time._

Zofilia reacted instantly: she stood up and rehung the rest of the personaca on
a hook by the fire. "Get my basket from the stillroom," she asked, untying her
apron. Then she went to the corner cupboard and selected a few vials of
fifleaf, counting on her dusty fingers all the while. The last time Zofilia had
questioned Flyss' strange, sudden pronouncements, Flyss had been eight.

_Mother!_ Flyss had come running up, intensely worried. _Is Sorcha in the
stillroom?_

Zofilia had been hanging laundry. "What?" She had stared at her daughter,
pausing for a fateful wasted moment with her hands tangled up in wet sheets.

_Where's Sorcha?_

"She's gone into town with your father."

Flyss gave her a relieved but sympathetic look.

"Why?"

Flyss shrugged and bit her lip. Zofilia frowned at her and opened her mouth to
demand to know what was going on. But Flyss was looking past her mother's
shoulder, at the enormous ancient capsel tree which shaded the outbuildings
around the cottage.

_Never mind._ The voice in Zofilia's mind sighed, frustrated and disconsolate.
_It's too late._

A strong gust of wind ruffled its leaves, there was a sudden groaning,
shuddering sound, and the great tree started to sway like a drunken Mundane.
Its lower branches caught the edge of the stillroom's shingles, peeling a few
away and tossing them to the ground.

"Oh no!"

Zofilia dropped the sheet, wanting to run towards the little building, but
Flyss put a small hand on her forearm. With a bone-jarring whump! the tree fell
over, smashing into huge rotten splinters and crushing the small wooden
stillroom underneath. Zofilia lost an entire season's worth of herbs and
preparations, and several finely crafted glass vessels she had purchased from
Dar in Mileth. But she had gained a full and respectful appreciation for Flyss'
premonitions.

Zofilia shook off the memory and hastily cleared the table. But when Flyss
reappeared, a crease of concern lined her mother's brow.

"It's too soon. Raeven should have a few more weeks."

Flyss only shook her head, but the worry lines bracketing her mouth sent a
trill of fear down Zofilia's spine. This time, as always, Zofilia wanted to
ask, what have you seen? But in the end, knowing the details would make no
difference. Whatever Flyss had envisioned would come to pass.

They crossed through Rucesion proper with their heads lowered, moving as
quickly as possible. A guard at his post by the community tablet took a step
towards them: it was very late, no one else was about-but Zofilia raised her
basket and her hand in greeting. He relaxed.

"Fiosachd go with you, milady. May the child be healthy."

Zofilia lifted her hand again. Flyss gathered her cloak at her throat in one
hand and pressed ahead.

The Five Guilds of Rucesion sat outside the city boundaries, beyond the temple
of Luathas with the castle of Dubhaim in the distance. Flyss pulled the bell
rope at the front gate and it sang a clear ringing note. For a moment all was
quiet again, so quiet they could hear the faint rush of the sea in the
distance. But then the gatekeeper arrived, grouchy and still half asleep,
demanding to know their business.

Zofilia reached down to uncover her basket, preparing to explain, but then she
felt Flyss' cool fingers on her wrist. Flyss turned her violet eyes towards the
discomfited rogue, still wrapped in his sleeping blanket, and smiled gently.

_We're here to see my sister Raeven Kyrkonnel,_ he heard, like a soft whisper
intertwined with his own thoughts. _Will you please let us in?_

He blinked. The young woman before him made no sound, but simply waited.

"Of course," he murmured as he stepped aside. Zofilia hurried through the
portal but Flyss made a graceful sign of blessing. The gatekeeper yawned as if
in reply, wondered why he had gotten so upset, and closed the door behind them.

Raeven's quarters had been recently moved to the top of the southwestern tower,
and they quickly ascended the curling inner stairs. As they approached her
door, they saw light at the sill: she was still awake. Zofilia paused, suddenly
more worried than before, but Flyss lifted the latch. The door pushed back to
reveal Raeven sitting propped up before the fire, wrapped in a green woolen
robe, reading parchments and eating cherries.

"Mother! Flyss!" She stood up awkwardly, with one hand over the broad swell of
her pregnancy. "Why are you here, what's wrong?"

Zofilia noted several things at once: the normal paleness of Raeven's cheek,
the ease of her movements, the faint red stain of cherry juice on her lips that
showed her healthy appetite. But she still stepped forward and put her hand on
the outermost curve of Raeven's stomach. By force of habit, Raeven moved
Zofilia's hand down and to the left. The child within her stretched and kicked
as if on cue, pushing her tiny head against her grandmother's fingers. Zofilia
breathed a deep sigh of relief and brushed a loose strand of long black hair
away from Raeven's cheek.

"Do you feel alright? Any nausea, or pain in your back?"

Raeven shook her head, her gray eyes wide with bemusement. "No, Mother, I feel
fine." She closed the book she had been reading and looked towards her sister
again. Flyss stood by the door, holding out Raeven's boots and traveling cloak,
with a grim and stubborn expression.

_We have to go now._

"Go?" Raeven lifted her brow in surprise, looking to Zofilia for confirmation.
"Go where? Why?"

_It is time to bring your child forth, for her own safety and for yours._

Raeven pulled back a step, spreading her hands across her waist. "But it's too
soon."

Zofilia put her arm across Raeven's shoulders and spoke to Flyss in a firm,
calm tone.

"Raeven is right to be worried; it's dangerous to force a child into the world
without a good reason."

Impatience and alarm passed over Flyss's normally serene features, and she
dropped the shoes and cloak. In one hand she grabbed her mother's wrist, and in
the other she took her sister's. Then she closed her eyes and reached inward
for the vision she had Seen.

Soldiers, struggling hand to hand, slipping and falling in the bloodstained
mud. The banner of Loures tied in a knot with the flag of Undine. A rag-tag
band of assassins, dirks gleaming in their hands, attacking a green-haired monk
among the grape fields in Suomi...then stealing towards the Five Guilds
under cover of night.

Raeven gasped and pulled back from the sight of her husband's dead body among
the fluttering green vines, but Flyss held on. Tears pooled and spilled from in
Raeven's eyes as she saw her own death then, her throat slit by the knife of
LeGalle's murderers, the same knife raised high over her belly and the
innocence of her unborn daughter.

_If we deliver Raeven now,_ Flyss promised, _I will take the girl child away to
a safe place_. "Take her where?" Zofilia demanded in a hoarse voice. Raeven
stood frozen with terror, one hand covering her mouth and the other one, torn
free from Flyss' grasp, cradling her stomach.

To the faerie realm. We can hide in the lover's glade and I can take the baby
through.

"Through what? To where exactly?"

Flyss shook her head, mournful but stubborn, and she withdrew her hands and any
access to that part of her knowledge.

"I've never heard of such a thing," Zofilia insisted.

Raeven drew a deep shuddering breath and wiped her cheeks. "I trust her." She
gulped back her tears one more time and sat down on a nearby bench. "If this
means our lives, mine and the baby's and even LeGalle's, then we have to do as
Flyss says."

Flyss picked up the discarded cloak and draped it over her sister's shoulders,
smoothing the last few tears away from the high curve of Raeven's cheek.

Zofilia stood there for a moment, clenching and unclenching her fingers around
the handle of her basket.

"Flyss Mekare Kyrkonnel, are you absolutely sure of what you're doing?"

Flyss met her mother's stern and terrified eyes with perfect, sad calm.

_I am_.

Zofilia held Flyss's glance for another long moment. But then she set her
basket down to help Raeven with her boots.

They walked past the gatekeeper without incident, with Zofilia and Raeven in
the lead and Flyss bringing up the rear. As they traversed the dirt path back
to town, Flyss watched every tree, examined every shadow, while her stomach
churned with fear. Her Gift was still imperfect; sometimes she Saw events in
jumbled order. The killers could come after Raeven and the baby first, and then
LeGalle afterwards, or one of the murders could prevent the others.

Flyss pulled the hood of her cloak over her head and hid her face. Luathas,
grant me wisdom! Let me See clearly! But there were no more clues, no
revelations in the puddles that dotted the path like black pools of fior creag.
Still Flyss watched, and listened, and kept her eyes flickering everywhere
until they reached the relative safety of town.

At Flyss' insistence they took a ship from Rucesion to Abel, avoiding Loures
and its environs altogether. Raeven fell seasick and Zofilia tended her on
deck. But Flyss stayed in their tiny cabin, poring over the only item she had
carried with her: an ancient scroll within a well-worn cylinder of leather, so
old the sinew-stitching had become brittle. Both the parchment and the
protective covering were inscribed with faded calligraphic symbols that Flyss
could barely translate. But the little information she had successfully gleaned
from the writing had proven too valuable, and too timely, to dismiss.

The ancient texts described the faerie realm in ornate but complex Aosdan
metaphor. If Flyss understood it properly, the scroll explained that the faerie
realm lay juxtaposed with the aisling world. In particular places, it was said
that the boundaries between the worlds had worn thin, like old cloth turned
delicately transparent, so that the fae moved back and forth by magickal
incantation. Deep within the woods lay several of these places, the scroll
proclaimed, including the enchanted glade. If an aisling could speak the proper
spells, and make the proper rituals of non-aggression and respect, then he or
she could pass into the faerie realm.

Flyss practiced the spells over and over in her mind, watching the shoreline
through the porthole. Did she dare attempt it-with a newborn baby nonetheless?
Wasn't there any other way to protect her almost-born niece that was less
drastic, and dangerous?

But it was too late to second-guess herself, or to let her anxieties show. It
was her part to lead the others, to dictate what should be done. She wrestled
her uncertainties and her panic, and continued to practice as the wind pulled
the ship towards its destination.

They reached the Eastern Woods by sundown the next day, moving down the path to
the enchanted garden as quietly as possible. When they saw the first copse of
flowers, Flyss turned north and led them along the edge of the clearing. The
wings of the wasps looked gauzy and iridescent against the fading light, and
they hung suspended in the cooling air as if by magick, wandering lazily from
blossom to blossom.

Flyss felt the fae glade's nearness before she saw it; all Priests did. It gave
off a low pulsing thrum she felt pushing up from underneath her ribs,
resounding through the long bones of her arms and legs like the ringing of a
bell. Raeven moved cautiously, barely able to wedge herself between the densely
flowered bushes. But Zofilia helped the clear a path, and then they were within
the charmed circle, where the very air around them seemed to change.

Zofilia brought Raeven to a flat, wide stump and made her sit down. When she
was comfortable, Zofilia made eye contact with Flyss for the first time since
leaving Rucesion. "You sit there," she pointed to a tuft of grass, "facing her,
not me." She rummaged around in her bag, withdrawing a flask of rum and some
small vials she kept hidden between her hand and bosom. "You're not to see
what's in this mixture. It's a secret of my trade."

Flyss nodded easily and sat down facing her sister. Raeven held out one slim,
trembling hand and Flyss took it.

"Is there anything more you can tell me, anything at all?"

The sunset filtered through the trees in tendrils of pink and gold, limning the
curves of Raeven's worried, anxious face. Flyss pressed Raeven's hand to her
own heart and sighed.

He's not dead, she told her, knowing it was meager consolation.

Raeven looked down at her lap and her mouth trembled. "I try not to ask him too
many questions," Raeven whispered, her eyes glistening. "Whenever he travels,
whenever he's gone, I know he's working for the freedom of his people."

Flyss covered Raeven's hand with her own. If you had known about the blood feud
that killed his father and endangered his own life, would you have withheld
your heart? Would you have refused to marry him?

Raeven shook her head.

Then it is Unwise for you to second-guess yourself now. It will only add to
your worries and your grief.

Flyss smiled, adding her own fervent prayer to help her follow her own advice.
Raeven nodded, biting her lip and holding her sister's hand tightly as she
thought.

"Name her Maiala," Raeven said at length. "Will you promise me to do that, if
something goes wrong? If I can't do it myself?"

It was Flyss's turn to nod, and for once, she was glad for her vow of silence.
The expression of loss, fear and tenderness on Raeven's face put a lump in
Flyss's throat that would have rendered her speechless.

"Alright," Zofilia said in a low voice, turning to kneel next to Raeven with a
brimming wooden cup in her hands. "Raeven, you have to drink this in one gulp."
She nodded towards a wooden spoon and a wide glass flask. "Flyss, you be ready
with that honey. It will help kill the aftertaste."

Zofilia put the cup to Raeven's lips and tilted it. After the first swallow,
Raeven gagged, and Flyss quickly reached for the honey. "Come on, sweeting,"
Zofilia murmured, "all together now."

Raeven made a sound of disagreement in her throat but kept drinking. As soon as
Zofilia took the cup away Raeven coughed and choked, but Flyss held out the
honeyed spoon. Zofilia sat back on her haunches, her hands on her thighs, and
beheld her daughters with a long and serious expression.

"You should walk now until the contractions begin." She looked to Flyss. "When
the time comes, I want you to put her to sleep, just enough to keep her relaxed
and quiet. The potion doubles her body's effort and it will be very painful.
And, I'm guessing we should be as silent as possible."

Flyss frowned but nodded.

"Alright, then. Get moving."

Flyss helped Raeven up and put one arm around her waist, still holding her
other hand. Zofilia sat down on the stump and watched them, periodically
holding the bridge of her nose with two tense fingers.

They circled the garden, and the long skirts of Raeven's nightgown swished the
grass. As the daylight continued to fall from gray to purple to blue-black,
Flyss was certain she saw movement in the bushes. For one moment, as the last
ray of the sun touched the flowers, she saw the fine cloud of faery dust that
floated over the entire glade. It purled and rippled behind them like
glittering smoke as she and Raeven walked, but Raeven did not note it. All her
attention was focused inwards as the potion took hold.

Suddenly she stopped and gasped, holding her belly, and Zofilia stood up. "Now,
then..." she wiped her hands to hide her nervousness. "Let's get down to
business."

They helped Raeven lay back and once again Flyss sat with her back to Zofilia.
Raeven's hair twined with the long green grass and fallen flowers, and in the
fading sunset her tears turned to molten gold. It was a moment Flyss would
remember all her life: looking into her sister's eyes and commanding her to
Sleep, knowing she and Raeven might never meet again. Flyss held Raeven's loose
fingers laced between her own and gave into her own tears, watching the moon
traced a slow path across the starry sky. She studied the fiery-silver face of
Glioca and whispered entreaties for the love of Raeven and LeGalle and the life
of her niece. She prayed to Fiosachd for luck and courage, and she prayed again
to Luathas, for wisdom and for understanding.

When the moon began to fade, Zofilia suddenly tensed with purpose. Raeven let
out a low moan, and Flyss shifted to look at her mother from the corner of her
eye.

"It's a girl," Zofilia said, wiping the baby clean with a scrap of cloth. "Just
like you said it would be."

Flyss reached out and Zofilia handed her the squirming bundle. Soft green curls
framed the little face, hardly larger than the palm of her hand. Flyss brushed
her niece's cheek with one fingertip and the tiny gray eyes opened for the
first time.

_Her name is Maiala_.

Zofilia nodded, bending her head to tend to her other daughter. Flyss bent over
Raeven's sleeping form, gently pressing her little finger to Maiala's hand. The
baby grasped it firmly, and Flyss stroked their joined hands over Raeven's
brow. Zofilia made a choking sound, and when Flyss looked up there were tears
slipping down her cheeks.

"Promise me you'll come back," was all she could manage to say. Flyss tucked
Maiala more firmly into the crook of her arm and faced Zofilia with a grim nod.

I swear it, Mother, we will.

Zofilia dashed her tears away with the back of her hand. "What else do you need
from me, then?"

Do you have spring water from the temple pool?

"Aye, always." Zofilia picked up her bag.

And a vial of freshly made fifleaf?

Zofilia nodded, drawing out her flask of holy water and the smaller glass
vessel containing the herb.

Pour a little fifleaf in your hand, Flyss instructed, and add a drop of the
water.

Zofilia cupped her hand and made the mixture, stirring it a few times with her
index finger. "Now what?"

Flyss cleared her throat once, and twice, and put her own finger into the green
liquid. Then she spoke for the first time, to Zofilia's knowledge, in five
deochs.

"Blessed Danaan, watch over us," she whispered in a low, hoarse voice. "Lady
Mother, let me see only what is true and what is not."

Zofilia's eyes widened as the liquid on her palm grew warm and shimmery. Flyss
wet her finger in it and smeared the watery fifleaf over her eyelids. The
strong peppery smell overwhelmed her for a moment and droplets clung to her
lashes. She stood for a full minute waiting for it to dry a little, and in her
arms Maiala started to twist.

"She's hungry," Zofilia said.

Flyss opened her eyes slightly and whispered the sleep spell under her breath.
The baby's tiny rosebud mouth parted in a yawn, her lashes drooping. Then Flyss
looked up into the pearly gray sky: dawn was coming.

I have to go now. Zofilia swallowed hard. "Be safe, my daughter."

Flyss nodded hard in reply, and stalwartly turned to the rear of the garden.
Dew had begun to settle, coalescing with the faery dust into a fine pinkish-
orange mist upon the flowers. She pushed aside the white-blossomed branches of
a betony plant and held Maiala to her tightly.

There, in a small clearing among a cluster of ancient rowan trees, rose a faery
mound.

Flyss took a deep breath, inhaling the fresh piney air. The light that
penetrated the thick forest was rapidly turning brighter, so she knew she had
to hurry. Stepping sideways to the left, Flyss began to circle the hill.

The smell of the garden flowers and rowan trees dissolved. Then the coming day
seemed to recede back into the forest. On her sixth turn around the hill, she
looked back through the cleft in the flowers and saw her mother fading away;
the light and the air grew uncommonly warm. Then on the tenth pass, as she
circled round to the point where she began, Flyss saw the curvature of the hill
rise and bend. It was the entrance to the faerie realm, a doorway of stone and
magick.

She nervously touched a corner of her eye and felt the rough, blotchy stain of
the fifleaf-and then she stepped forward. The scroll fell from her limp
fingers, landing somewhere in the damp grass.

She expected to emerge inside a cave or cavern, into a dark and dank place far
underground. But instead, she found herself standing on the shore of a circular
cerulean lake with the warm water lapping at her toes. Everything around her
pulsated with magick-the grass seemed greener, the colors of the flowers more
vivid, the rippling sheen of the water's surface undulated as if it were alive.
A softly diffuse and golden glow seemed to emanate from everything; there was
no sun or moon or blue sky. But the thing Flyss sensed most strongly, like the
living presence of another person in her mind, was the quiet: there was no
restlessness, no sense of time. The waves purled over her shoes with a soft
sucking sound, a faint breeze rustled the trees and plants. And then, when
Flyss turned around to look behind her, the stone door had vanished.

_We were wondering if you'd come_.

Flyss gasped and whirled, clutching Maiala to her breast. Before her, a tall
slender man had suddenly appeared as if from nowhere. His smiling blue eyes
greeted her, and then roamed up and down her body as he appraised her in frank
admiration.

You're a bonny lass, she heard in her thoughts, and a rush of pleased self-
consciousness flooded her cheeks. She studied him in turn: he was handsome
with even, well-formed features, though the pointed tips of his ears and the
slant of his eyes proved he was neither aisling nor Mundane.

_Do you find this form displeasing_?

As she watched, the man seemed to tremble slightly as if he shivered, and when
he opened his eyes again they had turned green. His dark hair went abruptly
red, the line of his shoulders lengthened and broadened as he stretched in a
disarmingly casual motion. Flyss stared, unable to conceal her shock and
fascination, and then she put a hand to her eyes again.

Yes, it is a glamour, he responded, but do not be afraid. He held out his hand,
tilting his head slightly to one side so that the braids at his temples swayed.

She looked down at Maiala to make sure she was still asleep, and gave the man
her free hand.

_I'm Flyss_.

He smiled. And I am Orian. Welcome, he added. Come across the water with me,
and tell me how you came to know the way.

She nodded her consent, and he turned towards the water with a wider smile on
his face.

As he stepped forward, the surface of the water broke and a rock rose up to
meet his foot. At first, Flyss concentrated on maintaining her balance, but the
rocks were not slippery or unsteady. She looked up at Orian, watching the
movement of his long flowing hair, gold and red and orange all at once, and the
turning of the serpent torques at his wrist and upper arm.

I found an ancient book of stories, she began, but then Orian stopped.

You do not need to form the words, he told her. They stood face to face on two
rounded slabs, halfway across the water. The golden light caressed his fair
skin, and she became conscious of the warm strength in his fingers.

Just give me your thoughts. Show me what happened. Do not tell it.

Flyss looked down at Maiala's sleeping rounded face, hesitating. I've never
done that before./I

You're surprised to hear me in your mind?

You're the only one I've ever met who could communicate with me this way.

Orian glanced up at the honey-colored sky and smiled once more.

But I am not the only one, he assured her. Now give me your thoughts. The
others will want to know how you came here, and why you brought the babe.

Flyss buried her face briefly in Maiala's fragrant neck, and permitted the
memories of her visions flowed through her thoughts. They emerged in disjointed
bursts, disconnected and vague. By the time Orian landed lightly on the island
and had helped her onto shore beside him, she had given him the best
interpretation of her experiences. He shook his head, understanding and
sympathetic.

You must learn to hold your memories in the front of your mind as if they were
words. It is the only way you will ever properly understand them, and See them
for what they really are.

She wanted to answer, but Orian had turned his head expectantly.

The others are coming. He smiled down at her. Now you'll bide with us a while,
and let us care for you and the child.

Flyss nodded her head, assenting, and watched the others come towards her.

For the rest of her life, Flyss would puzzle over what happened afterwards,
always unable to understand.

Hands lifted Maiala from her grasp, lifting the baby high with coos of delight
and laughter that tinkled like bells. Her clothing drifted away and she bathed
in a pool of pink water, rich with spices and floral fragrance. The dress they
provided hung loose and gauzy from her shoulders, and she felt her hair swing
freely against the small of her back. But at her temples and forehead, they
fixed tiny gold clasps set with amethysts. She studied herself in the
reflection of the lake until Orian took her hand again.

There was food, delicate and light on her tongue, and thick heady wine. For a
time, she felt the others' questions prodding in her mind so she recounted her
visions and experiences as Orian recommended. She felt, rather than heard, the
fae's reactions, and it was as if she became part of their collective
consciousness. Feelings, laughter, ideas, intuitions, all flowed in and out of
her mind as freely as her own thoughts. Through it all, constant and steady,
was Orian's presence. He sat beside her, putting the choicest bits of food into
her hand, brushing her arm as he reached out.

Pipes and harps played, and some of the fae got up to dance. Flyss swayed back
and forth in time with the music and the strange braids at her temples knocked
lightly against her jaw. Then Orian came forward with a smile and drew her to
her feet. She whirled and dipped in time with the beat until she fell into his
arms, and his kiss filled every corner of her mind and body.

They lay together among the flowers on the lakeshore, paying their respects to
the goddess in the most primeval way. She gave herself to him without any
reserve, as if they had courted and known each other for deochs instead of
moments. Their minds and thoughts and bodies mingled without boundaries; it was
synchronicity, and it was the purest, most powerful sensation Flyss had ever
felt.

At one point she turned in Orian's arms and opened her eyes, and in the
strangely constant golden sky she caught a glimpse of the waning moon.

It's only a sliver, but, this morning it was full. She turned back towards
Orian, lifting his head to look at him. How long have I been here?

Does it matter? He nipped at her earlobe and kissed the side of her neck.
Aren't you happy here?

She threaded her hands through his hair. Happier than I've ever been.

He propped himself up on his elbow, taking her hand. Then why look up at the
sky, or count the hours? He pressed his lips to the inside of her wrist and she
shivered.

I wonder how they are._ She let him into her memories of her parents, and her
sisters, touching lightly on Laoghaire's death and Zofilia's terrible sorrow at
losing one of her children. _Raeven must feel that way, even if I took Maiala
here for good reason. And my mother . . . she is worried she will lose me
also._

Orian pressed the palm of her hand against his cheek, keeping utterly still.

_I just want to know she isn't suffering._

Orian sighed. _Then look into the lake._

He shifted his weight and stretched out a hand to dip it into the rippling
water. Flyss turned onto her stomach and his arm slid down her back to linger
at her hips. The surface of the lake turned opaque at Orian's touch, and Flyss
saw her sister Sorcha being inducted into the Academie Arcanus. Then with a
shock she saw Zofilia picking vegetables in her garden, and Raeven presiding
over a trial.

_Is this the present, or the past?_

The undulation of the water made it difficult to tell the color of Raeven's
robes; they could have been green from her term on the bench in Mileth or blue
from some future day in Rucesion. For a moment Flyss saw Gorvas her father as
an old man with flowing white hair, and then in the next instant he was a young
man again, emerging from the Mileth chapel with Zofilia, young and laughing,
clinging to his side.

Orian shrugged. It's all the same. Time does as it pleases here. We don't try
to impose ourselves upon it.

But then, another image came into view: a young woman with a rounded oval face,
resting her chin on her knees while the wind swirled in her long green hair.
She raised her head and looked at Flyss intently, curiously.

It wasn't a vision, it was a reflection. Flyss gasped and rolled over.

"Tantay-" the strange young woman addressed her using the ancient word for
aunt.

Flyss pulled herself to her feet, yanking her clothes into place.

"Tantay Flyss, where are we?"

For a moment Flyss simply stared. The young aisling woman in front of her could
be no one else other than her niece Maiala, fully grown. She had Raeven's mouth
and straight, long nose. She had LeGalle's wide, inquisitive gray eyes and
flowing fifleaf-green hair.

Fifleaf.

Flyss put a hand to her own eyes but her lids were smooth and clean.

It wasn't a trick, then, when Maiala slowly rose to her own feet on her long,
coltish legs. Flyss looked back over her shoulder at Orian, incredulous, and he
lifted one shoulder noncommittally.

_Like I said, my love, time is all the same here._

Flyss reached out and put her hand on Maiala's upper arm.

_Can you hear me, Maiala?_

"Sure," Maiala said, though she frowned and cocked her head to the side. "But,
why can't I answer you back the same way? Why am I the only one who has to talk
out loud?"

_Because you're an aisling._

Maiala's voice sounded loud and harsh in the strange quiet. "What's an
aisling?"

Flyss opened her mouth to answer in kind, but the words wouldn't come out.
Instead, she put her other arm around Maiala and pulled her close in a half-
hug.

For a long time, they embraced, and Maiala laughed self-consciously. When Flyss
reached up to cradle Maiala's cheek, she realized just how much her niece had
grown. To look at her Maiala seemed fifteen or sixteen deochs old, a young
woman not quite done growing. There was no trace of the infant left in her
features or demeanor, and Flyss felt a stab of panic, guilt, and urgency.

_Orian, I must go back._

Flyss heard her lover fall in step behind them, and felt his disappointment.

_I came here willingly, but, she didn't. She should know her parents, if
they're still alive. She should know her home, and herself._

_I understand._

He did, she sensed that aspect of his reaction, but underneath it flowed a
river of sorrow and grief that poured all through her body. As Flyss and Maiala
walked, she looked around at the trees and flowers, at the amber sky and the
lapis lake, and knew she would never feel as content again.

When they walked up the short incline to the place Orian had led her across,
all the fae were gathered to say goodbye. The others passed Maiala from embrace
to embrace, but only Orian folded Flyss within his arms.

_Will I...will I ever make it back?_ she asked him.

He smoothed his thumb over the crest of her cheekbone, smiling regretfully, and
his answer was his silence. Flyss let out a shaky breath and hid her face
against Orian's collarbone for one more moment.

_Then, will I remember?_ She couldn't imagine ever forgetting him, but even as
they stood talking the feeling of his touch grew cold on her skin.

_I hope so, my love. I will always remember you._

She swallowed back a sob, knowing she had to leave now or she never would, and
that Maiala could not get back to the glade alone.

And that moment-standing on the shoreline of the faery isle, watching the warm
light spill across Orian's face-was the last one Flyss recalled with any
clarity.

She never knew how she and Maiala returned to Rucesion; the spells faded from
her memory, and she never regained the precious scroll. From time to time,
Raeven or Zofilia would mention her absence in passing and Flyss would frown in
confusion till they reminded her of what had happened. Even Maiala herself
became just her favorite niece: one of many as her sisters bore other children.

Once in a while Flyss would pass a redheaded man in the street, or she would
walk through the garden near the lovers' glade. Or she would meditate in the
sacred pool outside Luathas' temple and see the faint outline of a face in the
full moon. At those moments, when the edges of past and present grew thin and
transparent from gentle constant touching, Flyss would remember, and it seemed
only moments ago that she had lain in Orian's arms under the golden sky. And as
her Gift increased, as the years passed, she learned to let time flow through
her fingers like holy water.

In the end, past, present and future were all the same.

She never forgot.


***

```
*Librarian Notes*

KTN: This entry needs more editing, the original has wonky italics which confused
the markdown conversion.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Flyss_Fae.html .
```
