# The Fall From Grace

_by Hibiscus in **Dark Ages**_

Glance around at this once living, thriving place. Where vaulted ceilings once
kissed this sky, only rubble now remains, slowly being reclaimed by the weeds
and grass. Beneath the broken pillars, behind the trees that grow through
choking stones, the grey walls silently crumble, turning to green and ash..
These lingering remains are utterly still, directly contrasting the wind and
its nature, as though remembering the former processions through the now ruined
corridors; the quiet steps of gentle feet on marble walkways, the faint rustle
of robes which even then draped like shrouds.

There was a time when this vast, flagrant ruin was the center of the greatest
known empire. The city thrived with song and dance, light and laughter, never
once entertaining dreams of the darkness that would soon encompass it. If only
those great Aosdans had known how the future would play out, perhaps they might
have prevented such a fall from grace as what they faced.

Come, run your hand over these cold stones, that once echoed the lives and
loves of the greatest and brightest our world had to offer. Let it be a lesson
to all who pass these ruins, that nothing endures, that time alone holds sway
over what aosdans, aislings, even gods, can build. That every light casts a
shadow, and the greater the light.. the greater the shadow that follows it.

Her fingers wove strange symbols in the air before her, while she murmured
quiet syllables in a strange tongue, stranger even than the flickering and
ghostly light issueing from between those fingers. Biting her bottom lip, she
again started the soft chant before lifting her eyes to glance at something out
the window, her concentration broken. "This just won't do," she murmered
faintly and ran her hands through her hair. Clearly annoyed, she threw a dirty
look towards he heavy leatherbound book she had been referring to.

"This isn't working," she half sighed, slipping into the chair behind the table
that the book in question rested on. She slumped onto the table, chin resting
on her arms, only half paying attention now, her eyes wandering about the room,
every flicker of movement betraying her restlessness.

She stood, lightly fingering the cloak resting over the back of the chair
before picking it up, carrying it with her as she slipped over to the window
that had stolen her attention earlier, wrapping the cloak around her shoulders,
fingers lightly tugging the cords to tie it. She leaned against the cold glass,
eyes fixed roughly upon the gleaming golden tower that stood as the highest
point of the city outside, and the dark clouds that surrounded it, throwing a
shadow across the entire city. Then she glanced back over her shoulder, as if
checking to make sure that nothing had changed in her moment of distraction.

Falling silent again, she took a step away from the table again, where the book
lay silent, unmoving. She gestured at it, spitting out two harsh words, and
watched as it glowed a fierce, sullen red. She arched a single brow in reply to
this change, hissing at it as it again moved of its own volition.

"It's almost as if it had a mind of its own." She laughed at the thought. "This
is the strangest riddle ever set before me." Her eyes narrowed. "It must be
his, but what is it exactly, and how does it work?"

She sat down at the table again, staring at nothing in particular, her nearly
blank gaze reflecting only that some thinking was indeed going on. "I believe I
will need some help to solve this particular puzzle, but who could I trust
enough to ask?" She half thought, half spoke to herself. At this realization,
she started chuckling quietly. "Aye, half mad indeed, speaking aloud to myself
as though I expected an answer."

`This entry is incomplete! Apologies.`

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

The original copy of this work is not intact. What we were able to find, is
replicated here. Do you have it? Please contact us.
```
