# The Locket: A Tale of Jannee the Rogue

_by Jannee in **Dark Ages**_

> _The Beansidhe_
>
> _Also known as the Banshee, the Beansidhe (translated as "Woman
> Faery"), of which there is only one, is well known throughout northern
> Temuair for her tormented cries. It is said that her scream foretells the
> final death of an Aisling or mundane. She has been sighted as a woman veiled
> in black, who treads on bare feet through the river woods north of Riona's
> Inn. Her element is unknown, and she is a shy and otherwise silent woman._
>
> \- _Excerpt from Home of the Tuatha, Library of Loures._

## Part 1

Jannee slipped down the back alley behind Riona's Inn, her foot steps would
have been missed by even the sharpest of ears, even if the Inn didn't back onto
the river. As it was the sound of rushing water completely drowned out any hint
of sound from her careful footsteps. Mileth is about the safest place in all of
Temuair to be, if you're an Aisling, but she was taking no chances. Tucked into
her knapsack was a small fortune in gems. She had a collection of rubies, coral
and beryl gems, all unpolished and rough. She was on her way to Piet to use the
polishing facilities there.

As she crossed the Mileth River Jannee heard an awful wailing. The sound echoed
up her spine and she felt her blood turn cold. It sounded like someone in pain,
but the cry was not quite human. She pulled her dagger from her boot and
proceeded cautiously across the bridge.

Fear crippled her every step and by the time she crossed she could barely
stand, never mind walk. As she stood watching the lights from the Inn
reflecting from the flowing water of the river she could swear that the lights
were swirling and moving together. As she watched in horror she started to see
a face form in the air before her, it was the face of a young woman.

"Please! Do not flee from my presence Aisling. I will not harm thee." She spoke
in the ancient tongue.

"Wha...what do you want of me?" Jannee was too frightened to run anyway, but
she was also curious.

"I require your aid Dreamer, for a task only an Aisling can perform." The
creature floated closer and took the form of a woman before the terrified
rogue. Jannee watched it happen and knew right away that the spirit was once of
the fae.

"I am the Beansidhe young one, I wail and haunt these waters because I search
for a precious thing taken from me."

Jannee had heard tales of this creature. The story of the Beansidhe was told to
her when she was a child. One night she had broken several dishes, right in
front of her mother, and was sent to her room. Her mother came to her later
that evening and told her of a creature that haunts the Mileth River who has
the power to frighten bad people to death. Sometimes Jannee's mother would try
to scare her daughter by saying, "Be good now, or the Banshee come for you."
Banshee is the modern term for the Beansidhe. Jannee had not actually believed
that such a creature existed, and yet now here it was, a monster from her
childhood nightmares. It took a great deal of courage for her to push down the
rising tide of fear and answer the spirit.

"Tell me about it," said Jannee. "Perhaps I can help." The spirit seemed to
visibly relax. Jannee was a little less frightened now, but it could have been
her curiosity that settled her nerves. She was now interested in what the
spirit had to say and less interested in running away. The Banshee smiled.

"Three hundred years ago I was of flesh and blood, like yourself. I danced in
the Enchanted Garden at midnight and played with the sprites as they swooped to
a fro. My love was Bregar. He was wonderful to me. In his arms I felt loved and
protected, he told me all the things a girl wants to hear and I loved him with
all my heart. We exchanged our eternal vows in Lovers Glade, it was the
happiest day of my life, and truly there were none happier until I bore a
daughter by him. We named our child Umbrae and she was the light of my life.

Our new life seemed to have all of the elements I wanted, a loving husband, and
a beautiful daughter. I was so happy. For Umbrae's first birthday I had the
Faerie Priests bless a locket for her. For the inside the locket I had painted
a small portrait of myself holding Umbrae. I asked Bregar to pose as well for
the painting, but he would not. After the locket was blessed the priest told me
that it would protect Umbrae's spirit forever and help me to find her should
she become lost.

'Keep it with her always,' he said.

It was then that I noticed a change in Bregar. He did not return my embrace
with the same feeling. I felt that we were drifting apart and it made no sense
to me. I thought the birth of Umbrae would bring us closer, that our daughter
would seal our love together in an unbreakable bond. But that was not so.
Bregar had no love for his daughter and seemed to be angry and even jealous of
her. When I confronted him he said to me, 'I just want it to be like it was
between you and me.' He would say no more about it no matter how much I pressed
him, so I did not speak of it again.

The end of my life came when I entered Umbrae's room one morning to find that
she was gone. I was overwrought with grief, but Bregar organized a search party
and they went to look for our daughter. Days passed and no trace was found.
Eventually Bregar returned to me and announced that he could not find our
daughter and that the search was ended. I collapsed on my bed and did not move
or speak for a fortnight. Bregar came to me a few times but I did not respond
to him.

When I came out of my catatonia I saw Bregar bending over me. He had an odd
expression on his face, but that was not the first thing that I noticed. I saw
the locket dangling from his neck. I reached for it but he quickly pulled away.

'What! Have you found our daughter?' I screamed.

'No dearest,' he said. 'Umbrae will never be found.'

'But, how do you know...' and then I came to realize something. In that moment
I knew that Bregar had done the unthinkable, that he had killed our sweet
little Umbrae.

'How could you!' I screamed. 'How could you!'

I could not be quieted. The more Bregar tried the louder I screamed. Eventually
he struck me. I ran away from him and made it as far as the river before he
caught up with me. He grabbed me around the throat and choked me. I could not
cry out but I continued to struggle against his grip. After a few minutes of
struggle he forced my head under the water." The Banshee sighed.

"I died right here Aisling," she said sadly. "I died never knowing what
happened to my daughter. So now I search for her, and wail, but without the
locket I cannot find her. This is my fate."

The Banshee fell silent and stared at the riverbank. No words were spoken for
several minutes before Jannee summoned up sufficient courage to break the
silence.

"I'll find the locket for you lady," Jannee said proudly. "I'll find it and
bring it back to you." The spirit smiled at the young rogue, but said nothing.

"You've suffered terribly in life, and I could not live with myself if I let
you continue to suffer...but where do I begin?"

The spirit looked at Jannee again, but this time the rogue was not frightened.
"Thank you," she said softly. "To begin your quest seek out Devlin, the
priestess. She might know what happened to Bregar and the locket."

As the spirit slowly faded away she said, "When you have found the locket
return to this spot and throw it in the river. I will receive it, and you will
receive my eternal thanks." Then she was gone.

## Part 2

Jannee was still hyperventilating when Sinthy found her; the young rogue was
lost in thought, or perhaps still in shock, but in either case it took Sinthy
several minutes of shaking and yelling to get any response out of her.

"Jannee! Wake up!"

"Huh? What...oh...hi Sinthy," She finally said.

"Hi? Do you realize how long I've been here trying to awaken you? What
happened?"

Jannee had to think for a moment before she remembered the story of Umbrae and
the locket.

"Sinthy, do you know the legend of the Banshee?"

"Only that she haunts this area of the river and that her appearance heralds
one's death. Is that what happened? You saw the Banshee?"

"Yes...and she told me her story. It was so sad."

"Hummm...but how are you?"

"I'm better...now," Jannee stood up and walked back and forth to clear her
head. "I think I'm ready now."

"Ready? For what?"

Jannee related the Banshee's sad story. Sinthy listened quietly, only nodding
at appropriate moments, until Jannee had finished.

"So you believe her?"

"Yes, I do. But I must find out what happened to Bregar after he murdered her.
It is the only way to release her from her torment."

Sinthy thought for a moment and finally said, "I'll help you," then hugged her
friend. "So our first stop is Devlin's shop. As the spirit said, she may know
Bregar's fate."

After a quick trip to Cassidy the higgler's shop, where Jannee stored her raw
gemstones, they made their way to the home of Devlin, the priestess. The two
rogues experienced the familiar tingle as they opened the door to the mystic's
small shop. Devlin smiled at them as they entered, but didn't stop blowing
bubbles. She really seemed to be enjoying the gum she was chewing.

"What can I do for you ladies?" Devlin smiled warmly.

Jannee looked solemnly at her and said, "Do you know anything about the Banshee
of Mileth River?" Devlin stopped blowing bubbles and looked intently at Jannee.
Sinthy thought she saw something move, just out of the corner of her eye. It
seemed to her as if a small bird had flown behind a support beam. She dismissed
it and listened to the fae priestess.

"So she spoke to you," It was a rhetorical question since Devlin kept talking,
"I wondered when this day would come. Do either of you know her real name?" The
rogues shook their heads in unison.

"Her name is...was Undriel and her story is well know among the Faerie. It
is a sad sad tale." Jannee and Sinthy both nodded.

"Since she has spoken to you I suppose you both know at least part of the
story."

"Yes," said Jannee, "she told me about her marriage to Bregar and the birth of
their daughter, her disappearance and the circumstances of her...that is
Undriel's death. I do not know what became of Bregar." Jannee noticed Devlin
wince twice, each time after the utterance of the name Bregar.

"We, the Fae, do not speak His name anymore. He is referred to as Cradhsé, or
the Accursed One, and I can tell you his fate.

After he slew the innocent Undriel Cradhsé fled to the East Woodlands and hid
himself in Lover's Glade. The presence of such a malevolent entity in the Glade
quickly attracted the attention of the gods themselves and Glioca sent a minion
to expel the beast. When the minion found Cradhsé she could not believe her
eyes. She could not believe that this beast was once Fae. It hurt her even to
look upon such a creature and called upon the wisdom of Glioca to assign a fit
punishment for him.

Glioca came to the Glade and gazed upon the beast. He hid his face from her and
silently wept as she delivered his sentence.

'You, recently of the Fae, have committed a great wrong. It is something so
horrible that the mere thought of it is enough to freeze the blood of the
innocent. I cannot imagine that there is a punishment severe enough to atone
for your actions but your resemblance to such noble creatures as the Fae is in
itself an abomination. Therefore, from this moment on you are not Fae and will
not resemble them.'

As she spoke Cradhsé began to change, his body twisted, and hair grew on him
that more closely resembled fur. As he lay trembling on the ground his features
became clear. He resembled a very large Hobgoblin. Cradhsé looked at his hands,
then down at his new form, and he screamed. It was a most unpleasant and blood
curdling sound.

After a minute Cradhsé picked himself up and galloped away into the woods." The
priestess fell silent then and bowed her head. Only looking up when Jannee
spoke to her, in a very low tone, almost a whisper.

"How do you know about the creature's howl, Lady?"

"Because young one...I was the minion that Glioca sent to deal with the
creature." She looked down again and said sadly, "It is an experience I would
just as soon forget...but I can not."

There was a respectful silence from the two rogues, and then Jannee asked,
"Lady, can you tell me where Cradhsé fled?"

The Priestess shook her head sadly, "I do not know Aisling, and it is a
question only a god may answer." She bowed her head for a few seconds and then
looked up suddenly. She had an odd smile on her lips as she rummaged through a
collection of things on the shelf behind her.

"Ah, this is it." She handed Jannee a small, carved statue of a woman. "It is
an effigy of Glioca," She explained. "Offer it as sacrifice to The Altar and
maybe Glioca will take pity and help you in your quest."

"Thank you lady," said Jannee.

"Help her if you can young one. She has suffered a long time." Nothing else was
said as the rogues left the shop. Jannee and Sinthy traveled in silence to the
Altar of Mileth. Nothing was said as Jannee pulled the idol out of her
travel-bag and tossed it into the offering basin. It disappeared. The rogues
knew it had been accepted. They waited a few moments to see what would happen.
How strange, thought Jannee, I'm standing before Glioca...where's Sinthy?

"Your friend is where you left her Aisling. You seek Cradhsé, I will show you
where to find it, and then the rest is up to you."

Jannee did not say a word as the goddess whisked her away on a flight over
Temuair. She could see all of the buildings in the town of Mileth get smaller
and smaller as they flew ever farther out over the forest. As Jannee looked
down she could see all manner of horrid creatures wandering the woodlands, and
hunting parties of other Aislings. Finally, the goddess set them down outside
of an old wooden building. Inside the rogue heard snoring. Glioca entered the
building and Jannee followed her. Inside they found a truly ugly creature,
asleep on a bed of furs. Jannee could see the locket attached to a gold chain
fastened around the creature's neck. Jannee turned to Glioca and nodded. The
goddess said nothing, she merely nodded in return, and then all went black.

Sinthy was standing over her when Jannee woke up.

"I know where to find the locket Sinthy. Cradhsé still has it on a chain he
wears around his neck."

"Kept as a memory of his former life I suppose," said Sinthy coldly.

"Bitter-sweet memory...the locket reminds him of Undriel...what he did to
her...and their child."

Jannee described to her friend the location of Cradhsé's Lair. Sinthy listened
carefully and when her friend finished she nodded, signaling her understanding.

"I know that spot in the woodlands. We shouldn't have too much trouble finding
that cabin. Do you want to go tonight?"

"Yes. I want to finish this Sinthy. I wouldn't be able to sleep anyway." Sinthy
merely nodded to her friend and then they set off together for the East
Woodlands.

## Part 3

The crackle of leaves underfoot caused Jannee to breakout in a cold sweat.
Quiet you fool, she thought, he's almost there. The goblin soldier came closer
and closer to the bushes where Jannee and Sinthy were hiding. The two rogues
were waiting until the right moment, but the suspense was nerve-racking. Then
they both heard it go off.

"Arrrgh!" the goblin cried out as he stepped on the carefully laid trap. He
stumbled to the ground in front of the two rogues who then dispatched him with
two well-aimed blows from their daggers. After dragging the corpse into their
hiding place, and relieving it of two bags of coins, the young women padded off
further into the forest.

After roughly an hour of travel they came upon the object of their search. It
was the cabin that Jannee saw in her vision. They both moved to a tall patch of
growth near the entrance. Then Jannee put her ear to the door.

"I hear him...he's still snoring." She whispered.

Sinthy smiled, "Humm...yes, I heard him from down the trail."

The situation was far too dangerous for either of them to even think of
laughing at Sinthy's clumsy joke. Jannee merely gave her friend a sideways grin
and tried the door. It wasn't locked. Inside was a large room with a pit in the
center for a fire, a hole in the ceiling allowed smoke to escape. The moon was
still high in the sky and bright, the light streaming in through the chimney
allowed the rogues to see their quarry. Stealth was unnecessary, as Sinthy
pointed out, since the monster was snoring loud enough to awaken the dead.

"He must be deaf," whispered Sinthy.

"It just makes our task easier," Jannee pointed to the pendant dangling from
the creature's throat. "Let's just get it and leave...I don't like this place."

The creature was huge, and his stench almost unbearable. It's like a
combination of cow dung, urine and stale beer, thought Jannee as she held her
nose and examined the chain. One part of its length was wedged into a fold in
the monster's enormous neck. Jannee dared not try to slip it over his head.
Instead she found the clasp and unhooked it, then carefully slipped the locket
off of the chain. She stepped away from the creature and started breathing
again.

A mile or so down the path the two rogues heard a cry that would be etched into
their collective consciousnesses forever. Cradhsé awoke to find his locket, his
most prized possession was gone. Jannee and Sinthy picked up their pace until
they were well away from Cradhsé's Lair.

## Epilogue

It was almost morning when the pair sighted Riona's Inn. Without stopping to
chit chat, which surprised many of their friends gathered outside the Inn they
made their way around back and across the bridge. Once on the opposite bank
they made their way to the river's edge and Jannee opened her travel bag. She
carefully extracted a small object, which no one standing on the path above her
could see. Sinthy backed away a few paces and stood apparently watching the
river and waiting for something to happen. Those gathered on the trail above
did the same.

As she threw the locket into the river Jannee could feel a burst of energy
extending from her fingertips out to the small object. No one standing on the
bank could see this mystical link between Jannee and the locket but her and
Sinthy. They watched in amazement as it sailed into the middle of the river.
The on-lookers could only see the locket disappearing into the water, but the
two rogues saw a lot more.

Just before the locket would have hit the water a hand broke the surface and
caught it. The hand continued its accent as well as the arm, shoulder, head and
the rest, until the figure of a person floated in the air above the water.
Undriel said not a word to the two speechless women as she floated above the
river, and then she looked up. Jannee saw a cloud drift down toward her, and as
it got closer to Undriel it took on the form of a small child. When it had
fully formed out of the mist the child began to run toward her mother.

"Mommy!" she cried as she fell into the arms of the floating spirit.

"Yes baby," said Undriel, "everything is all right now."

As the spirits, mother and daughter, faded from view only Jannee and her friend
could hear Undriel's words of thanks.

From the top of the bank the gathering crowd only saw Jannee throw something
into the middle of the river. Almost immediately she and Sinthy were surrounded
by a shimmering luminescence that seemed almost as bright as the rising sun. No
one heard anything except Jannee's quiet sobs and Sinthy utter the words,
"You're welcome."

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Jannee_Locket.htm .
```
