# When Time Comes Calling

_by Kaieve in **Dark Ages**_

_A leap! No time to think! Throw the surigam! Stab! Twist! Don't let go! Twist
twist twist! Rip! Stab! Twist again! Twist twist twist! The bite! Pain! Burning
pain! Poision! Spreading across his body! Chomping mandibles! Crunching bone!
Flaying flesh from muscle! A sting! From where? Behind! Turn! Stab! Twist!
Stab! Twist! Red! Grey! Bite! The mandibles againthe end \- the light at the
end of the tunnel \- one final bite \- why didn't it finish him? Wouldn't it
want to finish its flailing prey before it was able to collect itself enough to
fight back? Or did it enjoy feeling the victim twist and turn as it ate? A
horrible death \- eaten alive \- No reds \- wishing he could look \- stranded
\- an island \- a light \- the tunnel? Dannan? A darkness overwhelming it \-
Chadul? The shadow's war? What was it? For just a moment, a jarring second, the
world came into perfect focus \- all of Temuair in one sharp vision \- the
problems, hopes, dreams, and successes of every aisling ever to be within the
Lands, all at once \- overwhelming! Help! Too much, all at once! Can't take it!
His vision \- back \- just for a second \- as the crunching mandibles of the
surviving centipede reached down \-_

Kaieve awoke with a scream. What a horrible nightmare! What did it all mean? If
it had been the first time, he'd have passed it off as a freak occurrence, but
it wasn't the first time. This had been a recurring dream for the past several
weeks.

Kaieve looked to the bedside, his own world coming into focus. The room at
Riona's Inn was sparsely decorated, a few flowers and a nightstand were all
that accompanied his stay. That and the bed he slept on. The bed itself was an
odd one, slightly lumpy in some places, soft as feathers in others. He might
also have attributed it to the strange sleeping conditions, but he had tried
several different beds in the past weeks.

During the day, Kaieve pondered the dream's meaning. At night, the dream came
back, no matter how he tried to stop it. He had tried, tried, and tried once
more over the time it had occurred. He had tried staying awake all night, but
knew that, inevitably, sleep came, and the dream seemed to lure him there like
a bait he swallowed hook, line, and sinker. He knew It would come. There was no
stopping the cycle. As of late, Kaieve had become terrified of travelling in
the Mileth Crypt, or near to anywhere else inhabited with dangerous beasts,
lest his dream show itself to be less a dream and more a premonition.

Now Kaieve spent his days either talking with the visitors in Riona's Inn, or
at the tavern conversing drunkenly with whomever was there. When he was under
the influence of the seductive (and, he had found, rather pacifying) wine that
was served at the bar, even the mundanes provided a decent conversation. Today
he elected to travel once more to Mileth's tavern, where he would decide which
drink proved sufficent to fight the ever-increasing fear and depression that
followed him like a shadow and infected him like a plague.

***

That night, it came again.

***

_Wandering \- where? It was fuzzy \- he couldn't quite tell \- it was dark \- but then,
wasn't everything these days? There were forms \- in the distance? He couldn't
tell. Were they coming closer? Or moving farther away? He looked down at his
feet. The ground warped and twisted beneath them. At times, it seemed to fall
out from under him. Other times, it spiked up, as though some ethereal deamon
were trying to break through the ground, and he was sure he'd be tossed to the
ground \- wouldn't it then fall out from under him? Sacrifice him to the
merciless void below? Would it catch him in mid\-fall, play with him, drop him,
catch him, drop him, catch him \- and when it was tired of its toys, what then?
He saw something \- leap!_

The dream ended in its usual manner, the island, the light, the darkness, the
mandibles - they were what scared him the most - those biting, crunching,
mandibles. No salvation from those jaws - but the dream was over now. There was
no denying he was awake again. But Kaieve didn't feel any better.

***

Kaieve somehow guided himself to the tavern, unsure how, but knowing he must've
made the journey, if he were there. He looked at his feet. They didn't move -
but surely they must've moved of their own volition earlier, there was no way
he could've gotten to the tavern, _himself_ , he'd never had the thought -
prehaps it was the gods' will? He dismissed that thought as quickly as it came.
Such things were for priests, not rogues.

"Kaieve!" a voice called. He barely recognized it, then looked up from his
study of his feet. Sitting on a stool near the bar was his friend Zirilian. The
spiked blue hair seemed to jump from his head like it had a mind of its own -
sometimes Kaieve wondered exactly what he did to it to make it that way. But at
the moment he had business, and that was walking over to the bar stool where
Zirilian was seated. This he did with at least some degree of success.

Kaieve took his own seat at the bar and ordered a Hemloch. "Want one?" he
inquired of Zirilian. Zirilian took a distasteful glance toward the pea-green
concoction that sat in front of Kaieve on the wooden bar table.

"No thank you," he replied.

"Your loss," Kaieve noted, then took a long draught of the poisonus potion.
Zirilian wondered to himself exactly how rouges forced that stuff down their
throats, or if it was some genetic trickery by which they actually enjoyed the
stuff.

"What brings you here, anyway?" Kaieve asked. "Don't usually see you around.
Didn't you decide to abstain from drinking, always, I think was the word you
used..." Kaieve slurred the thoughts into one rambling sentence, due mostly to
the effect the toxic hemloch was already having on his brain.

"Well, I don't, usually," Zirilian admittted, "but a friend of mine told me I
really should try it..."

"You got friends other than me?" Kaieve asked, his brain already stirred into a
mush by his drink. "Just tell me 'is name an' I'll..." to emphasize his point,
Kaieve drew his dagger and plunged it into the soft wood of the counter. The
barkeep looked over at him distrustlfully.

"As I remember it, that friend was you," Zirilian chuckled.

"Then I'll get him good," Kaieve proclaimed, now utterly drunk. Zirilian looked
carefully at his friend, ready to grab his arm, lest he try to follow through
on his threat of killing Zirilian's "other friend".

"Hey, you, boy," an aged voice called. The voice seemed to crackle like burning
paper, and all the two of them heard were the whisps of smoke carried by the
wind. Nonetheless, the two young heads turned toward the noise's source.

The source of the voice was an old man, who pointed a bony finger towards
Kaieve. His face was wrinkled, so much so that one could barely make out his
features, his eyes hidden deep beneath the folds of his skin, lips nearly as
white as a cow's hide, and shriveled like the raisins of the grapes that had
lain too long in the sun in the Suomi farmer's fields.

Zirilian, with his reservations about the old man, and Kaieve, with his drunken
recklessness hanging about him like a cloud, approached the nameless figure.
The man looked up at them, and they could see his eyes. His eyes were black,
black like a coal from the Kasumanium mines, black like a thunderhead, and then
there was a flash of light. Was it lightning? Or a flash of hope at the two
young souls staring down at him?

Again, the man spoke to them, a rasp, bordering on a whisper, the only voice he
could manage. And this time, the sound was not the crackle of burning leaves,
it was the melody of the wind, prehaps wind darting playfully between the
trees, prehaps wind carrying on its lips a song of forewarning, and that was
what Zirilian, pining for a meaning withing the old man's impassionate eyes,
found it to be: it was lightning in his eyes, prehaps, and this wind- voice,
it, _it_ was the calm - before the storm.

"Boy," the man whispered, and he looked directly into Kaieve's eyes, and for
Kaieve the wind was now a shrieking storm, all clouds gone from his brain,
blown from it by the whipping sounds and high-pitched creaks and crackles of
this one man's voice. "Boy," he continued, "I see you - I _see_ you - I see
your eyes, they are the windows - to the soul. And your soul, I can see it
clearly in your eyes, your soul is in turmoil, grappling constantly with its
own demons, not with grin or horn but sent by Chadul, the demon that is far
more insidious, the kind that is subtle, the kind that will gain ye trust then
stab ye in the back whence ye turn 'round. This demon - this demon is the dream
terror, the one that plagues ye in ye sleep, the one that bites and claws at
that place ye cannot find, the place ye cannot defend - the realm - of the
mind.

"Boy!" and this time it was near to a shriek, but Zirilian, Kaieve, and the old
man were the only ones in the tavern besides the unemotional mundanes, and the
man's voice seemed somehow to carry no echo. "Boy, I, too, am held by such
demons. I alone cannot fight them. But young able-bodied warriors - could." And
this time the man looked directly at the two of them, seeming to cover them
both at once with his penetrating gaze, a gaze that was chill, nearly
indifferent at times, yet bit like the cold winter wind, as though the gaze
itself had teeth.

"What do you mean?" Zirilian asked, casting a doubtful gaze at the man. "I
would not think such creatures to be manifest."

"Oh, oh, but they are," the man implored. "I know that one may be found in the
Mileth Crypt. It lies in a deep dark depth, penetrable only by those clear of
mind and true of heart. Will you, _will_ you, go slay my demons - " he looked
at Kaieve, "and yours."

***

Zirilian and Kaieve trod out of the tavern somberly, loaded down with the
hugness of the task they were about to attempt. There was almost no chance
either would survive, even though they each carried several beothaich deums on
their belts. That all was, if this man's demons even _existed_.

Kaieve, for his part, was terrified at the prospect of going into the Mileth
Crypt, despite Zirilian's vows of protection. Kaieve, thought about, willed,
the crypt never to appear on the horizon. Alas, it did. Even Kaieve, deep down
in his gut, knew it had to. It, like the Dream, was inevitable.

The two of them entered the crypt, somehow never seeing a single other aisling
in the process. The crypt was dark and dank, the walls overgrown with moss and
other odd kinds of plants Zirilian suspected even a professional herbalist
couldn't identify. The occasional rat scurried by, but nothing more, as though
there _was_ something down there, something that was waiting for them, could
wait as long as it needed, and knew that Kaieve and his friend would come
eventually.

Down they went, several floors, until they came to where the old man had told
them to go. Zirilian looked about the place carefully. He looked, studying
every nook and cranny for signs of what the old man had mentioned. Then he took
three steps forward and disappered into thin air.

Kaieve, too, looked about himself. He knew this was his chance, his only
chance, to take an out, to run from the beast. But the nightmares would come.
He knew there was only one chance of stopping them. He steeled himself, and
took three steps forward.

Kaieve and Zirilian felt a slight tingling as they stepped into what usually
was open air. They suddenly found themselves at the bottom of a staircase. The
room they had emerged in harbored far less moss than the dungeon above,
something slightly unsettling, and doubtless exactly as the creature wanted
them to feel.

It was utterly silent in the room, save for the harsh breaths of Zirilian and
Kaieve. They looked about - nothing. Not a beast. But there was evil here,
though it was not manifest - not yet. Suddenly, Kaieve was drawn back into his
dream: the strange dungeon, the forms. As he watched, the pillars of the room
seemed to sway in front of him, as though the evil were collecting in a single
spot. And suddenly, it became Terror.

The air seemed to bring itself together, wrap itself into one giant fist of
horror, trying to punch vital targets before making a knockout. And then all
the Evil seemed to wind to the floor, and manifest. A giant red scorpion stood
in front of the two of them. Its piercing yellow eyes were not the yellow of
the sun that blazed upon Temuair's surface, but a penetrating yellow, one that
radiated challenge, and took on all comers. And its eyes said it never lost.

"Traps." Zirilian hissed to Kaieve. " _Now_."

Kaieve snapped to his senses. He kneeled down and bent a stray bit of metal
from his pocket into a crescent and took out his dirk, sharpening the edge. He
took out a centipede's gland and squeezed some of the poison onto the edge. A
poisoned stiletto trap. He took a small bit of string from his other pocket,
and wound it about the barely sharpened end.

Kaieve pulled out a final bit of metal and used his dirk to punch a tiny hole.
The thing in front of them watched intently, making no move. Finally, Kaieve
wound the string through the hole and carefully set the trap on the ground,
lest it go off in his hand.

Suddenly, Zirilian leapt. He drove his sword toward the creature, which moved
and struck. As it had taken the form of a giant scorpion, it flashed its tail
nearly faster than one's eyes could track, and knocked Zirilian to the floor.
It apparently did not feel like finishing the game just yet.

It moved toward Kaieve and he saw its giant mandibles, and once again his dream
came to him, but this time he knew he was awake, and there was no denying the
reality. Kaieve was stunned by the giant tail, as Zirilian had been, and lay
prone on the floor, knowing that at any moment the beast could move forward and
chop him in half with those gaint mandibles, our crush him in its claws.

It moved closer, and chomped down...

And there was a shout, an inhuman scream. But Kaieve was too far gone to notice
it. He was flying through the air, and off in the distance, there it was, the
island! The Island of Dreams! And suddenly there was a light, and he knew it
would eventually be crushed by darkness. But this time a figure walked from the
light, and he was blinded by it, he could not quite make out the face of the
figure, or it did not want him to. The figure took many forms from Kaieve's
past, and from the Past before Kaieve. He saw many scenes he was quite positive
no aisling had ever seen: Dannan, Deoch creating the aisling, the bond of the
Gods and the Wars of many Deochs past, of times before the Times were measured
in Deochs.

And finally a definete figure emerged from the light, it was a man - the old
man from the tavern. Kaieve looked at him, at his wrinkled face, and saw that
the face was no longer cold and dark, but shining, and his eyes danced with a
new kind of light, another fire, but this was not the fire of burning leaves
but the fire that lit and made warm the hearth of a family, and children sat by
the hearth and played by it, and the mother came and swept them up, chiding
that it was time for bed. All this Kaieve saw in the old man's eyes, and he
knew that the man was correct, the eyes mirrored the soul, that one could see
true intentions and feelings by a gaze into the dark pools that radiated a
light - but it was the soul of the man that told wether the light was reflected
off another's soul or a burning brightness from within.

And in that moment, Kaieve knew the old man was not an old man, but Time, and
He had had only one nemesis. Only evil has plagued all Time, and now, at least
for a while, for this man the blink of an eye, Kaieve was sure, he was free of
the plauge, and Kaieve knew he had surely done this man a great service. He
knew that, eventually, the evil would come again, but by then another aisling
would be Chosen by Time to combat this terror, and that he, too, would succeed.
And forever, and forever thereafter, there would be another and another to
fight this evil, and dreams would be forever unclouded. As long as there was
darkness, there would be light.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Kaieve_Calling.html .
```
