# The Sadness of King Bruce

_by Kalasin in **Dark Ages**_

I'm sure all of us have at one point in our Aisling lives, went to visit the
Castle Loures. If you haven't, I shall describe it to you: it's a large,
spacious and majestic castle. A fountain is in the front, the falling water
playing a soft tune to the trees. Rich carpets cover the stone floors of the
long, dim hallways. Many would say it is a place bustling with life, what with
the servants running to and fro and all of the mundanes ready to serve. But I
disagree heartily. One needs only to take a glance at our liegeï¿½s face to see
the infinite sadness and loneliness. To him, the castle is empty.

I wondered, why has not King Bruce a queen? So I wandered the castle looking
for an answer. I dared not ask King Bruce himself, for the subject is probably
too close to his heart still, for the sadness is deeply etched in his brow. In
my search, I found a matronly mundane of indeterminate age, or rather, she
found me. She introduced herself as King Bruce's nursemaid when he was just a
boy, though she never mentioned her name and I didn't think to ask. She had
heard of my quest, and had quite a story to tell.

I am but a humble scribe from this point on. This is the mundane's story, as
she told it, scribed in my untrained hand:

"His Majesty wasn't always this sad. Heavens, no! Why, when he was a boy, he
used to tear through the corridors, skipping about and terrorizing the
servants. But he had quite the winning smile, he did, and everything was always
forgiven.

"He grew out of his childish mischief, but acquired the mischievous ways of the
youth. He was handsome, oh! incredibly so. I overheard many a lady say that his
glance was enough to win her heart, and if he was to look away, break it as
well. And although none of these ladies caught his fancy, he still liked to toy
with them. Him and his noble friends! Pah! I would've liked to box their ears
for such cruelty in the name of sport! But ah ... what's done is done and we
cannot mend the past with actions in the future.

"I wasn't witness to all of these events, but King Bruce was a loving and
trusting lad, he told me all of his secrets and adventures. It used to be that
every summer, a friend of the Queen's, Queen Ninae and her daughter would
visit. They were from some small, unknown kingdom to the north of what you
Aislings call Mileth. King Bruce, as was duty as crown prince and host, had to
entertain the young foreign princess.

"He found this to be boring as the Princess Caitlin was five years his junior
and never wanted to do the things he liked to do. It didn't help either that
the poor girl was in her awkward stages. Caitlin wasn't very tall, but her
skinniness made it seem she was. Her red hair she always had pulled back into a
bun so no one except the maid who dressed her hair every morning really knew
what it looked like. Her pale skin was dusted with light freckles and her green
eyes flashed with merriment. Awww .... even then I thought it was something
akin to the twinkle of imagination that I see in the eyes of an Aisling.

"Every summer he played host to this girl whom he loathed his friends to see,
who went around in her father's clothing and wanted to adventure with the
youths. He thought she was too plain for words, and he almost laughed every
time he was asked to introduce the 'lovely Caitlin.' The last time he saw her
was two summers earlier. It was now well into the summer of his twenty-third
year, and he thought he was rid of himself playing host to girls who played
boys.

"He was walking through the garden one summer's eve, when he saw, as he told
me, 'an angel tending the rose bushes.' I'm going by His Highness' description
as I wasn't in the garden when he saw her -- a girl of some eighteen years was
standing in the garden, her red curls arranged over her shoulders and shining
in the moonlight, tall, and lithe, like the way faeries are described by
fanciful story-tellers. She smiled at him in recognition, for she knew him,
even if he didn't know her. She apologized softly to him for missing last
summer and coming late this summer, but troubles at home kept her and her
mother from leaving their kingdom. Then he realized it, the ordinary
caterpillar had become a beautiful butterfly; it was Princess Caitlin.

"It was love at first sight for both of them, though looking back now, Caitlin
didn't seem quite as devoted to His Majesty as he was to her. They would walk
about the castle alone without chaperons (quite scandalous at the time, mind
you!) and would shamelessly kiss and hold hands in public. Times are far
different now, and you would think our old notions silly, but that's the way
things were then. He wanted her to marry him right away, but every time he
asked she refused him. Caitlin said she wasn't ready for marriage yet and that
there was so much she hadn't done yet. She had a strong sense of adventure,
maybe too strong for a mundane. But King Bruce didn't notice, and kept
persisting.

"The last night of Caitlin and her mother's stay in the castle, she awoke
suddenly from a strange dream. I was passing through the hall when I heard her
start so I came in to inquire upon what was wrong? She said nothing was wrong
at all, and she said it in such a tone that no one could've disbelieved her.
She lied back down with a smile of secret knowledge on her face and said,
'Thank you for your concern though.'

"That morning, Caitlin told her mother she couldn't leave with her. The Kingdom
of Temuair was her home now and she would be very happy with her new life.
Queen Ninae, fighting back tears, said goodbye to her daughter and went home.
Oh, but Queen Ninae was so sad. The whole castle mourned for her then, for who
would willingly say goodbye to their child?

"King Bruce went to her in the garden where they had met that summer, and asked
her again if he could have her hand in marriage. She had her back to him, but
as he turned to look him the eyes, he saw something different. There was more
than just the usual laughter and merriment that flashed in their green depths,
but a certain elusive sparkle. Something a simple mundane couldn't dare to
dream of ... imagination. Then he knew: Caitlin had become an Aisling. She told
him their worlds were too different now. King Bruce vowed that he would change
and that he would follow her in the adventures of Aislings. But alas, it wasn't
to be.

She left soon enough, and the castle mourned along with their crown prince. All
he could do was watch from the battlements as she walked out the gate into the
dangerous world, wearing the clothes of a newly initiated warrior. She waved
goodbye and nothing more. King Bruce shed a single gray tear, though its effect
is still clearly seen on his old, care-worn face. Caitlin broke the poor lad's
heart that day.

"King Bruce never married. The still unmarried ladies he used to tease in his
youth were no longer as interesting to him and they still didn't catch his
fancy. None of them were his Caitlin. When his father died, he assumed the
crown. Up until the day she died, the Queen gently suggested to her son that he
should marry but every time he shook his head sadly and would gaze out the
window, past the castle.

"Alas, that girl broke his heart twice more. Can you believe it? Twice! King
Bruce, well into his fortieth year, received news that Caitlin had passed into
Sgrios' realm for the last time. He was sad beyond tears, and he wanted
something, anything of hers to remember her by. The courier who gave him the
tragic news handed him Caitlin's copy of her Aisling legend. He read it over,
studying the life she led without him. Then, at the bottom of one of the pages
was the source of His Majesty's last heartbreak. In Caitlin's flowing and light
handwriting was written, 'Loves Kail'"

A tragic tale, for certain. I have so many questions to ask the old nursemaid,
including what her name is, but I have never been able to find her again, and
she hasn't found me either.

Now I look at our King, not a man who carries a mysterious sadness, but as a
living martyr. His care-worn face tells a tale of a love that could light the
very stars but yet went cold and hard. He has endured much; still he never
breathes a word of what he has gone through. His story is one that deserves to
be told. And I, Dear Reader, tried to do just that.


***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Kalasin_Sadness.html .
```
