# White Eyes of the Yard

_by Kasmanan in **Dark Ages**_

_I dedicate this work in the name of Gramail, that all that follow my footsteps
into that horrid yard be protected through his grace._

As I completed my jouney from Loures to the newly excavated area of Tagor,
excitement boiled within my blood at the thought of what lay ahead. A dark
ocean of trees spread before me, and a light warm wind played across my hair,
filling my senses with the fresh scent of the sea that I so loved, and that I'd
soon leave. I looked around nervously, trying to read some expression on the
face of the ship's crew. Nothing. Whatever thoughts of Tagor dwelled within
their minds, they kept them well hidden to themselves, preferring to keep to
their tasks at hand. Nor had I been successful in my several attempts to engage
the crew in conversation. Although their expressions did not betray it, I know
them to be spooked to the core of their souls, secretly hating that such
aislings as I would even request passage on such a terrible journey. Were it so
that an open road existed from Suomi to Tagor (though it would be to the horror
of the fair citizens of Suomi, I am sure), I'm sure the ship and their captain
would happily retire forever from the making of this voyage, telling all who
would inquire as to passage exactly what they could do with their shiny weapons
and armor.

Still, times were tough in Temuair, and a coin is a coin. Commissioned to give
passage to all who would so request, the sailors begrudgingly did so with nary
an ill-spoken word. I had to admire them, though I seriously doubted that they
held such high regard for myself. I quietly chuckled to myself on this, and
looked up abruptly as a gentle thump rose from below, as the ship dropped
anchor. Though we still lay nearly a half league from shore, I knew that the
fair "Kings Maiden" would carry me no closer. An invigorating mornings swim it
would be then, I thought with a slight smile. I released a gentle sigh, as an
involutary shiver spread throughout my body despite the warm morning air.
Tagor. Hold what it may to my future, I was here at last.

>_Horrible monsters. Undead appearing from thin air. Screams of terror from
> every direction..._

I pushed such childish tales of these forests to the back rescesses of my mind,
and journeyed onwards from the beach, such as it was. I'd drawn laughter from
many, and looks of puzzlement from most, when I'd announced to those close to
me that I intended to traverse the forests in the vacinity of the infamous
Macabre House of Tagor alone. Newly married, and wealthy by the standards of
most, I suppose I can see why noone could understand my motivations for wanting
to come here. Deep inside, in that protected area of thoughts that I save only
for myself, I'm not even sure I did. But since childhood, when grandfather had
told me of me of the tales of the House of Tagor, and of its fall, I'd vowed
that one day I'd visit the area myself, and see whatever it is that may be
seen. I'd seen a spark of something in my grandfather's eyes when he told his
tales of wonder, something of a mixture of excitement and horror, that seemed
to make him seem momentarily Deoch's younger than he truly was. I had to find
that for myself. I could not explain it, and cannot still to this day. It was
simply something that tugged within my heart.

I moved from the short beach area onto the rough dirt road that stretched
seemingly forever into the vast forest. The sunlight appeared to grow slowly
dimmer as I trudged onwards, though by the lay of the sun in the sky, I knew it
to still be early morning. I shrugged this off as a trick of my vivid
imagination, for which I am well known. As I wandered further down the path,
the trees closing about me until it seemed that they themselves were some sort
of creature, slowly approaching me at a speed unrecognizable by my mind, bent
on devouring me, I began to notice a few crumbling wooden buildings appear on
either side of the road. As I moved closer to investigate the first and closest
of these shacks, a soft moan greeted me from within. My heart momentarily
frozen with terror, I halted my progress, listening intently in an attempt to
discern what manner of creature or being might be capable of releasing such
sounds. After a couple of minutes, the moans subsided and silence returned.
Fingering my lotus dagger nervously, and mumbling a short silent prayer to
Gramail, I once more continued my progress towards the uninviting wooden abode.

Upon reaching its porch, I noticed that although the building obviously had a
door from which entrance to the interior might be gained, the door had been
firmly nailed shut in numerous locations, and several glyphs or wards (Sylvan?)
had been drawn in varying locations across its face. I gingerly reached out to
try the handle of the door, thinking that perhaps time had rotted the wood in a
manner sufficient to allow entry despite the nails, but it was to no avail. I
lightly pushed against the door itself, and found that not only did the door
itself not contain the slightest amount of give, I actually felt as though I
were being pushed _backwards_ instead of forwards. It became quickly apparent
that whomever or whatever had shut this door so securely had had no intentions
of anyone getting inside...or of anything that might be contained within
escaping. Obviously _something_ had managed to find an entrance, hence the
noises I'd heard earlier, since surely nothing could have remained within the
firmly secured confines for such a long manner of time without access to the
outside. With a shrug of dismay, I began to look around the house (as I had now
determined it to be) for some other possible form of entrance. I was rewarded
with nothing but the knowledge that whomever had been responsible for the
houses constructin had done an excellent job upon it. Although there were
obviousy signs of deterioration as one would expect, the building itself
remained solidly erect, with the windows themselves being firmly boarded over,
and drawn upon with yet more glyphs. With some reservations, I pressed my ear
gently to the window, that I might be able to use my hearing to locate the
source of the moaning I had heard earlier.

For the longest time I was greeted with nothing but the eternal sound of
silence, and I had begun to think my efforts in vain, when I a noise came forth
from within that sent my heart fluttering at a pace that it had previously been
unaware that it could obtain. This was not a moan, no, not in the sense of the
moaning that you or I might emit when wounded or when we've a pain of the
stomach from eating too much beef with our ale in the tavern. This was not akin
to the noises that I'd heard from afar when I'd called upon the desperately
ailing child in Loures Castle, to give to her, as so many others did (may
Gramail shine upon them for their efforts), a single Sevti flower, which had
been obtained in the dark maze-like swamps of Mehadi. No, the sound that filled
the forest that day, and indeed my entire body, mind and soul, was unlike
anything I had ever heard previous to that day, and filled me with a sense of
horror that I find my words simply cannot explain. It was in that instant that
I knew, simply _knew,_ that whatever was on the other side of those walls was
not natural, that it was not of the natural order and balance that exists
within Temauir. When a fighter travels forth to battle a young Draco deep
within the confines of Pravat, both he and that Draco are a part of a natural
order that serves to sustain our world, and whether fate and his deity decree
that upon that day he should slay the Draco, or be slain himself in a valiant
attempt, _that_ is natural balance and order. We are all apart of it, young and
old, good and evil, Glioca and Sgrios alike. It is the energy and life and
order that our world consists of, for better or worse.

But _this_ sound was different. It in no way resembled anything that should
exist upon our world. I stumbled backwards in sheer terror, the horrible moan
coming from so near to me that I was firmly convinced that whatever it was was
already upon me, and would any second devour me with its presence alone.
Realizing that should whatever was within suddenly burst forth upon me, hell-
bent on attacking me, I would be at a distinct disadvantage having no knowledge
of what I was even facing, nor what the creature was capable of, I did what
every man and woman does at least once in their life, faced with danger
unknown, or obstacles that they simply do not feel prepared to face, whether
they will later admit to it or not. I ran. I ran and ran hard through twisted
trees, with no attempt to keep to the road, through dark and shaded vales,
through murk and mire, ignoring thorns that ripped at my armor and face,
oblivious to my surroundings, though I now recall catching glimpses of pale
grey faces on several occasions looming before me, seemingly as oblivious to me
as I was at the time to them.

Onwards I ran still, until at last the sheer weight of my marauder's hide armor
bore me to the ground in exhaustion, panting and gasping for breath. I lay for
what must have been an hour, or very nearly so at the least, until at last I
was able to sit up and recollect myself. It is not a boast when I tell you that
it is most unlike me to panic in such a fashion, always having been known to my
comrades as the vigilant hunter. I ran a hand across my blood- streaked face to
wipe sweat from my brow, at last looking around to contemplate my surroundings.
I knew immediately, of course, that I was rather lost. A road ran nearby, if
you could call it that, but I recalled having crossed several such pathways in
my blind flight, and seriously doubted that this was the one that my journey
had originated upon. A breathed a gentle sigh, having fully recovered, and
freshly avowed, both in shame and anger, never to run in the face of such
danger again. Having devoured a simple meal of bread and honey, washed down
with a sip of wine to calm my nerves, I again took to the road, this time
remaining every vigilant of my surroundings as I traveled on. Never again would
I flee in such a manner. Never again.

> _Rotting corpses. Men, women, children alike, all dead now. The horrid evil of
> the House of Tagor, the undead terror, it spreads, it spreads, it spreads..._

I'd thought little of the raving words of the forlorn beggar I'd seen outside
the gates of Piet a week past, little more than to toss the customary copper
coin to him, and wish him to the mercy of the gods. His words came back to me
with startling clarity now, however, as I walked along in the growing twilight.
What had he meant? Was it possible that this ragged man had actually known
something of whatever evil now lay all about me? I cursed myself for a fool.
When the gods hand you a gift, and you throw a coin at it in distain, mayhaps
it be then that they will leave you to your fate. Undead terror. My mind raced
back to the pale grey faces that I'd seen as I'd ran, the unseeing eyes that
stared off into eternity. Zombies. The word itself hung upon my lips even as in
involutarily uttered it. I drew in a sharp breath, and tried to recall what
little knowledge I had on the subject of zombies, or more generally, undead.

I'd once encountered a wraith deep within the confines of the Crypt which lies
upon the outskirts of Mileth, but that encounter had been at a distance, and
with the use of my developed ability at hiding. I'd recognized the wraith from
teachings of lore I'd had as a child, and cryptic drawings set down on
parchment by adventurers of days past. It was upon the 27th level of the crypt
that I'd encountered it, in the midst of seeming hordes of marauders (a small
creature with a rather uncanny ability to freeze you with terrible magic, and
then quickly send you to your death with it's sharp claws). Having seen no
obvious manner in which to progress further into the crypt, and having no wish
to risk the precious cargo that I held (several scalps from succubi that I had
cleverly trapped earlier that day from a hidden location), I had opted not to
risk combat with this assumedly dangerous foe, and had simply used a scroll
that was bestowed upon me at the temple of Gramail to teleport to the gates of
Loures Castle, near the shrine itself.

Outside of that, I had only the knowledge,, taught to me by the elders of my
village of Abel, that undead were supposedly creatures, be it human or animal,
that have been reanimated after the point in which the spirit leaves the body
bound for Sgrios domain. Whether or not the undead corpse itself actually
contained the spirit of the deceased, or was just the empty husk of that which
once was, I did not know. Having personally visited Sgrios domain on several
occasions myself, and having tasted the bitter pain he is so well versed in
handing out in delivering his infamous scars, I could only shudder in the
imagination of being trapped in such a place for an endless period of time,
unable to return to the body which has been consumed by an abhorant evil. It
simply did not seem of the natural order to me, and the part of me that clings
vigilantly to the teachings of Gramail welled up in rage that such an unnatural
violation of balance and order could take place. I believe it is this rage that
led me onwards, onwards on this dusty road, despite the growing twilight, and I
soon found myself trudging on, deep within the forests of Tagor, on a dusty
road seemingly to nowhere, as night swallowed me in her embrace.

I never saw it coming, you know, I only felt the pain. One minute I walked
along thoughtfully, wandering truly where this road would take me, occasionally
letting my thoughts drift back to my wife Alora, and the next moment the entire
left side of my body exploded in a pain that both cleared my head instantly and
purged me of any doubts I had as to the hostility of the creatures of Tagor.
Twice previously I had again spotted what I now firmly convinced myself to be
zombies, as the description could simply fit nothing else, and I'd even seen
some form of hooded creature well off in the woods that vaguely reminded me of
the wraith I had encountered in Mileth Crypt, this creature embracing some form
of dark staff rather than the scythe that wraith's are so well known for. But
none of these had shown any interest in me despite the uneven sprawl of light
that my torch set upon the forest. I had thought that I'd seen the hooded
figure look my way just as I moved further off down the slightly overgrown
path, but I'd just as quickly left it behind, out of my line of vision, and
decided it most prudent not to investigate it further in the boundless
darkness.

It had been at some point only minutes later that the attack took place, and
were it for my inane apptitude at dextrous actions, and my nearly inpenatrable
armor, I would surely be dead even now, and never would this tale have been set
forth, as the mind has an amazing manner of quickly shelving to the farthest
recesses of the mind the horrid details that one suffers in death, upon a
successful return from Sgrios realm. Even in the midst of the mind- numbing
pain, I was able to whirl about and face the creature that had launched such an
assault upon me. Again, it was this action that saved my life, as I barely
managed to dodge, I jest you not here, the bloody claws of a large, evil
looking rake of some kind. A smirk may have crept upon your lips upon reading
this, but I assure you, the apparatus which this creature carries is nothing to
laugh at. And, in particular, the speed and power with which it uses it. Merely
one blow had caused an immeasurably painful injury, and I had little doubt that
several such blows would result in a rather swift ending to the encounter.

The one thing that I shall never forget of this encounter is the eyes. The
horrible, horrible white eyes. Dereft of pupils such as you and I have, the
white eyes of the red-clad zombie stared off into eternity, glistening back the
reflection of my torch. Though I felt both mesmerized and horrified by such an
appearance, I had little time to stop and contemplate it further. Even as I
moved backwards as quickly as I might so as not to fall, the zombie ambled
after me at a pace that I would have believed impossible had I not been witness
to it myself. I attempted a slash with my dagger in desperation, but I managed
to inflict little more than a nick, and nearly received a nasty gash myself for
the efforts. Truly, my hour of desperation was at hand. There was little at
hand that I might use to hide myself with, but I felt little choice in the
matter. In a move that pushed my honed reflexes to the very limit, I twisted
myself around and left backwards towards a nearby clump of growth. Even as I
did this, the horrible rake came down upon my right shoulder, ripping open the
flesh, and rendering my arm useless. I bit down hard upon my tongue, silencing
my scream of pain, as I completed my attempt at hiding.

Even now, as I lay wounded and bleeding, hopelessly pinned by a foe that I know
not how to combat, all bearings lost, my pack ripped from my back and nearly
all possesions lost some time back, I do not regret my journey. Though I have
lost my pack, even now my eyes wander to the growth surrounding me, my mind
desperately racing in an attempt to figure out a manner in which I might devise
a way to set traps for the beast, using the sticks and trees about me. Whether
or not I shall succeed, I know not. My thought is only this: should I succumb
to this terrible creature that has beseiged me, and my spirit seperated from my
body, I only pray that I might not be subjected to the same fate as these
zombies which even now surround me. Oh, a thousand deochs in Sgrios purgatory
should be preferrable than such an existance. Be warned, confident reader, be
warned. The terrors of this place are not such that an aisling should travel
alone. I came here on a journey of personal fulfillment of the spirit, and with
Gramail's grace, it is still yet possible that I might return. I must end this
hastily written journal now, as I hear the creature approaching my spot of
hiding. It was the foresight of the gods, and much luck on my part, that
allowed me to place this journal in such a place as I might not lose it when
the creature attacked. Thus, I've been able to share with you my tale, leaving
out only those mundane details which I haven't the time to include. It comes, I
must go, even now I see the eyes, the horrible white eyes....

_By Kasmanan D'arth_  
_Rogue, Deoch 13_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Kasmanan_Macabre.html .
```
