# Chain of Fools I - The Siren's Fount

_by Katrionah in **Dark Ages**_

"It's beautiful, isn't it?"

The silvery voice cut through Atrin's conciseness like a knife, tearing him
away from his dream-like state and back to reality. The young Monk spun around
instinctively to face the voice's owner.

Instead of some horrible foe, he found himself face to face with the single
most _gorgeous_ woman he had ever seen in his entire life. Her face, her form,
the very aura about her, was absolutely flawless to him. The girl smiled and
laughed airily, the simple actions making her already radiant facial features
seem ablaze in their beauty.

She gazed at him thoughtfully with eyes like pools of sheer sapphire. She
tilted her head quizzically in that moment, the rivers of her golden hair
cascading around her slender arms.

" _Well?_ Don't you think so?"

"Oh... Y-yes." Atrin was barely able to choke up the simple words. "Very...
_beautiful_."

It was true; their surroundings were breathtaking in their magnificent grace
and composure. It was a glade that could have been like any other a traveler
would find in such a sea of woodlands, but everything about it, no matter how
small the detail, somehow set it apart. Even Every single _tree_ seemed to play
a vital role to this uncanny glade's appearance, making all seem more like a
Master Artist's handiwork than to anything nature could hope to produce. It
was, in a word, _flawless_.

Yet by far, it was the lake the two stood at, that proved most intriguing of
all to the weary Monk. After seemingly endless hours of walking through that
maze of wood, he somehow found himself in this strange clearing, even if he was
minus the companionship and protection of his other hunting members. The very
moment he had laid eyes upon the pool, all thought of his being lost was
forgotten, leaving him instead filled with a sense of peace, even ecstasy. It
was something he never would have thought he could ever feel just from a simple
lake.

Aside from the crystalline waters, the rays of sunlight that danced upon the
surface, or the soothing rustle of the wind throughout the scene, a mysterious
structure at the center of the lake proved the most wonderful of all.

A statue, carved with utmost care in every detail, was placed precariously in
the exact center. It depicted an Angel, standing with upraised hands as if
reaching out to the heavens above. At each side of its feet were two stone
cherubs, each one hold a vase from which streams of the silvery water flowed
out from and into the lake.

It seemed almost as if the lake had been made to look like a giant fountain.
Odder still, the grand angel that graced the waters, look strikingly... no
_identically_ like the girl that now stood beside him.

The girl uttered a soft laugh upon the very instant Atrin realized this. "I
take it you noticed the stature."

"Yes... It look so much like--"

"Like me?" The girl smiled.

"Yes," Atrin stammered. " _Just like_ you!"

The girl smiled once again to his explanation, her face rarely seemed to be
without one now. Pushing her golden hair back from upon her shoulders, she
herself finally looked to the magnificent structure with an expression of
simple indifference. "Strange," She said. "Not many travelers realize the
similarity so soon."

"Oh?" Atrin raised a quizzical eyebrow. "There have been others here?"

"Of course there have!" Surprisingly, the girl's smile faded as she spoke. "But
lately there haven't been so many." She looked to the ground below sadly. "It's
such a pity too, I get so terribly lonely..." She shook her lovely head slowly
and sighed, thus allowing her golden hair to fall once more around her
shoulders as before.

Atrin found his gaze wander over the fountain lake; nothing made sense to him
anymore, yet at the same time it was all so perfectly clear. He didn't
understand it.

Finally, his gaze returned back to the mysterious girl. "So... You live here?"

She nodded solemnly. "Yes..."

"Oh..." Atrin sighed. "I guess it _would_ get lonely here then..."

The idea she could live here, just in this glade, seemed odd to him, yet who
was he to question her? She looked well in both health, and most certainly in
appearance if that. It was not his place to ask yet even as he played with the
thoughts in his head several times over, he found he could not help but look to
her again. She was very much like her surroundings, perfect to him in every
way. In some faint aspects, those, which appeared small but significant in
every glance to her, Atrin could not shake the feeling that he reminded her of
a girl he had known years ago. It was a silly idea, but her every facial
feature, even in the faintest traces, looked very much like a young tailor's
daughter whom had shrugged away his advances quite often in his boyhood.

"Is something wrong?" Atrin found those gorgeous eyes were again focused
heavily upon him.

"What? Oh... It's nothing..." The Monk shook his head as if disagreeing with
his own words. The girl saw this, and wasted no time in moving closer to him.

"You know," She said in the faintest of whispers. "It's been very rude of me to
talk so much, and never even give you my name.

"Your... name?" Atrin murmured.

"Yes, my name!" The girl laughed. "I _do_ have one you know... It's Lorelei."

Her silvery words, even though they were only of a late introduction, were like
music to Atrin's tired ears. It seemed as if every time the girl, Lorelei,
opened her mouth that the simplest of phrases she uttered send him into a sweet
trance of ecstasy. It was becoming so that Atrin direly wished she would speak
again. He felt as though addicted to her very voice. Lorelei smiled once again,
how incredibly lovely she looked!

"So then, stranger." Lorelei giggled. "Who might you be?"

"M-me?" Atrin felt all thoughts flutter from his mind. "Oh... Yes. I-it's
Atrin."

Lorelei playfully skipped a few feet away from him. "Ah! Well then!" She
smiled. "So now that we're properly introduced... what's troubling you, Atrin?"

What could he possibly tell her? The words had fled from his lips, he barely
even managed to tell her his name! Atrin froze at the simple question, to tell
her he was fine would be a lie, and he could never dream of lying to such a
lovely creature. He mulled through his options again and again in his mind, not
realizing the two were left in silence during all this time. Lorelei stood by
patiently nonetheless, her slender arms folded elegantly behind her back, and
her sapphire eyes watching him with the utmost intent.

Finally, after working up the courage, Atrin said the only thing he knew he
could. "It's nothing really, you don't have to worry."

It was a wonder Lorelei even kept her patience with him. His answers were
blurted out with nary a thought before they left his trembling lips.

"Oh." Was all Lorelei replied with. She took a few graceful steps away from
him, turning and swaying it what look to be a mimicking of the water's moves
and the tree branches stirring in the wind. This could have lasted only a
minute, perhaps only a few seconds, yet the silence was a horrid eternity to
Atrin. Had she known? Did she think ill of him for such an answer? Immediately,
he began planning excuses for his own terse words.

Lorelei, however, did not allow him the time to conjure an apology. She turned,
very suddenly, from her silent, dancing pace. Pushing her unruly blonde hair
from her face as before, she flashed him a now soothingly reassuring smile.

"You don't have to worry, Atrin. It's alright. Really. You don't have to tell
me if you don't want to."

Her eyes were full of thought as she spoke, leaving Atrin to wonder what the
reason of that was. Before he realized it, he had already rushed up to her
side. "No, really! I insist! I can tell--"

There was no chance to finish. Lorelei placed a fragile hand to his lips,
cutting him off mid sentence. "Hush now." She whispered softly. " _I insist_
that you not worry of it."

Atrin smiled, it was the first time he had since his sudden episode of being
lost and then found in the glade. Lorelei too, seemed comforted, calmer than
before. Drawing the cool touch of her hand away, she caressed his face a final
time before lowering it to take his own hand in hers.

She began to walk towards the fountain pool, playfully dragging Atrin along
after her. "Come now... I want to show you this."

He followed behind her with no objection whatsoever. Her grasp, as gentle as it
was, felt as firm as iron around his hand, and just as cold. By comparison, it
made Atrin's own feel as though on fire. Just as he had begun to think of this,
he saw that they were both waist deep in the cool water, Lorelei still slowly
leading him along further into the pool. They had come to the statues in the
center, which now as no surprise, were twice as perfect and lovely as they had
seemed from the shore. The cherubs had cheerful smiles upon their faces, their
gentle stone curls looking as if they could be stirred by the wind.

The Angelic figure itself was the crowning piece to not only the fountain
statues, but the entire glade itself. It seemed as if this holy form was
radiating with light, making it calming and pleasant to be near, as well as
look at. It was indeed, crafted to look like Lorelei, the only difference being
the heavenly wings that were outspread and ready for flight. Just like the
cherubs, it truly looked to be alive.

Lorelei, clearly seeing his awe, laughed softly in her bell like voice. "I
thought you'd like it."

"It's wonderful." Atrin gasped. "So lifelike, so perfect."

Again, the magnificent beauty laughed, though this time even softer than
before. "Be proud, Atrin. I've never once showed this to anyone else up close.

"Oh?" He looked to her, though his gaze was not met. Lorelei was instead
staring off into a distance dreamily.

She didn't turn, but nodded her head slowly to confirm his question.

"No one else... No one..."

Atrin moved slowly closer to Lorelei when she spoke. Even the splash of the
water around his feet sounded soft and mournful. Unable to think of any better,
more proper way to condole her, he took Lorelei in his arms. She did not pull
away, nor did she look to him in surprise. She simply followed his lead, and
came into his gentle grasp. Laying her head close to his, a faint smile
returned to her face finally.

In that instant, the feeling of the water around his legs seemed to melt away.
It felt as if instead, they were floating in mid air. Lorelei resting lightly
in Atrin's arms, and Atrin running his fingers slowly through her golden hair
in a soothing rhythm. It was all to perfect.

By the same token, the tranquil moment didn't last.

A piercing, desperate cry shattered the glade's silence, and Atrin's own
solace.

"A-a-a-trin!" He recognized the caller the very second it resounded through the
glade. It was Lyle, the Priest of the group he had been separated from. Atrin
pulled away from Lorelei briskly, turning to face the direction his voice had
come from. Lorelei, in turn, grabbed the arm closest to her, gesturing for him
to come back to her with a gentle tug. Torn between his party members and this
woman, he turned again to face her.

Her eyes were brimming with tears. "Atrin, don't go." She pleaded him. "Stay
with me."

"I... I can't..." He protested wearily, there was no way around it. "They're my
friends, I know they're worried. Lorelei, I'm sorry, I _have to_ go! They're
searching for me as it is!"

Lorelei's lips trembled, before Atrin could act she simply burst into tears of
both sadness, _and_ bitterness. "Forget them!" She wailed, her pained voice
sounding much different from the cheerful song like tone of before.

"Don't you see! You don't need them! If they really cared, they would not have
let you get lost in the first place!"

"I can't just desert them!" Atrin snapped, the anger rising in him from her
childish begging.

"What will you gain then?!" Lorelei demanded, now equally angry. "I can offer
you everything! Unending peace, eternal happiness! All you have to do, is stay
here with me..." She brushed away her tears, and her face softened. "Stay
here... always..."

Atrin shook his head violently. "You don't understand! I just can't! I can't
throw my life away for this!"

" _ATRIN!_ ANSWER US!" Another voice. This time from Corayn, his Warrior
companion. Any longer here, and they would surely pass him by, leaving him
stranded in the forest with no other escape. Lorelei too, saw this, and as a
sign to it, her hold on his arm tightened.

Atrin pulled away from her desperate clutch again, even taking a few steps
towards the banks of the pool. She was back upon him again before he had taken
so much as two steps away.

It was clear she would not let him return to his friends so easily, her grasp
was painfully more firm this time.

" _Atrin!_ " Lorelei hissed. "Make _this_ your life!!"

He fought against her grasp defiantly, though she held him fast. Tightening her
grip, she dug her nails into his skin. Droplets of blood followed, right before
the sharp stab of pain that rocked him.

She was so strong! It was too uncanny!

"Lorelei, don't you understand!" He cried. "This isn't the way! My life is my
life..." He hesitated. "So I'm going, _now!_ "

He tore away from her, pushing her back with such force that she was sent
reeling backwards into the statue. Taking his only chance, Atrin ran from her
as best he could, the waters were too deep to do so very quickly. Frantically,
he pressed against it, the shoreline, and further the opening back to the
forest, seemed like impossible goals to him now.

With barely any strength to do so, Atrin splashed and kicked through the deep
liquid. He was halfway to the shore before his path was cut off. Lorelei was
directly in front him. Just the same, and to his shock, she was directly above
him. The water dripped from her dress from where she hovered. Tears were
visibly pouring down her face, though her look was that filled with sheer
malice and desperation.

"I asked you to stay!!" She shrieked. "You didn't have to make me do this!"

Lorelei raised her hands high upwards to the heavens, her stance eerily similar
to that of the angel statue's. Tendrils of water sprung up from the pool
immediately after the simple action. Coil after coil rose from the silvery
liquid, rising around him in all directions, towering above at impossible
heights.

"We can be together!" Lorelei wailed over the roar of the churning waters. "You
and me! _Always_!"

She thrust her reach down and outward in his direction. The clear tentacles
fell upon the instant. With blinding speed they sped towards Atrin. His only
path out was still in sight, the chances were near impossible, but Atrin saw
what he had to do. It was, as he saw it, the only thing he _could_ do.

In his final burst of strength, Atrin flung himself forward out of the water,
never had his training as a Monk aided him as now! He dove back to the water,
directly under the base of the nearest of Lorelei's water tendrils. The current
all about was powerful and furious, but this was to his advantage. With all the
energy he could muster, Atrin flung himself upward through the water, and
directly into the whirling cyclone of current.

The force was enough to crush him, yet seeing as it was upwards, it simply
rammed him upwards with incredible force. In the blink of an eye, if he could
even manage to blink within the water, Atrin found himself thirty feet in the
air, and swirling directly in the center of the tentacle's water. His every
muscle aching with protest and agony, his entire body still being churned and
tossed about within the tentacle's swirling, Atrin pushed himself out with all
the force he had left.

It was enough.

And, being airborne and moving at a breakneck speed towards the wall of trees
ahead, Atrin's first reaction was to scream. Which, of course, he did, right
before slamming into one of them. Dazed, shaken, and incredibly weakened, he
pulled himself back up to his feet, realizing he now stood on solid ground.
Even better, just feet from the opening leading back into the woods.

"NO!!" Lorelei screamed.

"Ha, ha!" Atrin crowed ecstatically. "YES!!"

He raced in a mad dash for the passage, when in that same moment he could hear
the roar of the tentacles behind him as Lorelei forced them after him. Their
din came louder and louder within the second, but Atrin was already staggering
as fast as he could manage for the simple opening. Finally, he leapt for it,
though he could feel the spirals of water reeling closer to him. He sailed past
the trees, even if he had jumped only a few short feet. He landed with a dull
thud amidst the foliage of the forest beyond the natural doorway. He turned
just in time to see the liquid tentacles crashing towards him. Just as he had
before, he screamed.

The water crashed away just inches from where Atrin had fallen. Yet even
stranger still, they washed away as if they had slammed into a wall. Not a drop
made it beyond the glade's edge. He was safe once past that opening, he
blessedly saw. Silently he watched as the water, as if accepting its defeat,
slunk away back into the pool. Lorelei was still there, hovering above the
water. She only stared at him silently, her anger was gone, but instead a blank
look was upon her face.

***

"So, this is the _'paradise'_ you spoke of, 'Trin?" Lyle scoffed. "You sure you
don't mean wasteland?"

The three stood at the edge of the glade, the very one Atrin had nearly been
forced to stay in for all eternity as Lorelei's prisoner.

Only now, it was _immensely_ different from the beautiful scene he had been of
awe of before. The trees within the glade looked dead and rotting, their bare
branches reaching outwards as if they were the arms of a thousand lost souls
begging for solace. The crystalline pool which had nearly led to Atrin's
drowning, was now nothing more than a pit of mud, puddles of disgusting water
dotted the surface of it, but that was all to be had.

"I-I don't understand!" Atrin frowned. "I swear to you, it was all here!
Everything! The fountain, Lorelei, and--"

"You know you shouldn't swear, Atrin." Corayn chuckled.

"B-but..."

"Ah, whatever. You were probably just worn out. Hallucinating, even dreaming."
Lyle offered, giving him a swift pat on the back.

"We may as well look around." Said Corayn. "There must be _something_ worth
interest here."

As he looked closer to the disturbing glade about the fountain, Atrin saw the
must horrific change of all was the statue. It had not been crumbled away, nor
had it been covered in decay like the rest of the clearing. In fact, it still
stood, otherwise untouched by the massive change in scenery. The difference now
was its' very appearance, which nearly caused Atrin to fall backwards out of
pure shock.

The delicate carving no longer depicted a gorgeous angel reaching for the
heavens, but a horrific feminine demon, its' bat like wings outstretched in an
impressive yet frightening stance outwards from the rest of its horrible form.
The cherubs, who had been cheerful holders of the ever-flowing stone pitchers,
were now grotesque imps, with mocking facial features. They still held the
pitchers, yet instead of the pure water which had flowed from them, they now
poured outwards with gruesome streams of blood. The crimson, even odder, simply
evaporated as it fell upon the mud.

However, its' face, though terribly distorted in this new demonic form, clearly
appeared sad, even mournful. Atrin saw why as he gazed fell downward, to the
statue's base.

At the center of the stone base was a figure, demonic and twisted in every way
and shape, just like the statue huddled over it was. It did not move, nor did
the ghastly chest rise in fall in breathing. It couldn't, the reason was
painfully clear why now.

Driven straight through the heart was a branch torn from one of the very tress
above. The gnarled limb stood stock straight towards the sky, as if forming a
crude beacon to mark this horrible death. And though it was a demon that lay
slain at the statue's base, the Monk was nearly driven to tears by the sight.

Atrin, still nearly knee deep in the mud of the warped pool, dropped to his
knees in pure shock and terror.

"Well, look'it that..." Corayn gasped, cautiously moving closer to where Atrin
crouched. "Never seen _anything_ like this before..."

"Looks like suicide..." Lyle observed coldly. Atrin hadn't realized the Priest
too had joined them until he spoke then.

"S-suicide?" Atrin echoed weakly, his eyes did not waver from the demon's
corpse ahead of them. He felt a warm hand gently fall upon his shoulder. It was
of course Lyle, though the action seemed more as a means of bracing himself up
than to comfort Atrin. He didn't care either way, he couldn't so much as move a
single muscle now.

"Yes." Lyle confirmed grimly from where he stood above. "See, the hands are
clutching onto the branch, it must have drove that branch it itself. By its own
will..."

"B-by...I..It's own... will..." Atrin echoed breathlessly.

"Well, there is one thing I know for certain." Lyle announced cryptically. "If
you had hung around much longer, you'd have been Harpy food, Atrin."

" _What_ food?" The dazed Monk echoed.

"You know, harpies? Sirens? The demonic temptresses? All those legends?"

"I never thought they were true.." Atrin muttered.

Lyle pointed to the demon's corpse. "There's your proof. She was just buttering
you up the whole time."

"The whole time...?" Atrin repeated the words aloud, though he still could not
believe it.

"I'll be..." Corayn murmured. "Wonder what drove that thing to killing _itself_
then."

"I think I might have an idea..." Atrin whispered gravely.

"And what's that?" Lyle sneered.

Atrin shook his head, rising up to his feet slowly, and shrugging off Lyle's
touch just the same. "Never mind it," He murmured. "Let's just go home... It's
late anyway."

The others agreed, having no reason or desire to stay around the morose
clearing, they filled out one by one. Lyle and Corayn seemed thankful to depart
this terrifying sight, their steps were rushed and awkward even as they headed
for the passage leading out.

Atrin paused at the clearing's edge, staring silently at the demon's lifeless
body even as his companions walked on. The thought of what all this meant truly
terrified him to the depths of his very soul. Could it be that Lorelei had
simply meant to kill him in the first place?

No. That couldn't be, she was _sincere_ in her pleading for him to stay. Or was
he just so enchanted by here that he thought she was sincere. None of it made
sense anymore. As if it ever did.

Perhaps that time, she wanted things to be different. Perhaps, that one time,
she wanted to be loved, to no longer be alone in her secluded lair. Had he made
a mistake by leaving her? Or was it a move that ultimately save his life? His
mind and heart were utterly torn amongst these thoughts. A part of him said it
was the right thing to do, one less demon in the world. Another part said it
was murder, pushing her away when she for once honestly need the company and
love.

Atrin shook his head roughly to clear his mind. Only then did he realize he was
openly crying.

He had refused this siren woman's love either way, and it had, quite literally,
broke her heart. She would not be dead now if that weren't the case

The Monk hesitantly wiped the tears from his face, there was no way he would
explain this to his companions, nor would he. Slowly moving on ahead to join
them, he paused again at the opening back into the wood. Once more, unable to
resist doing so, he looked to the lonely corpse now far ahead. The night winds
picked up as he stood in the silence of this forsaken glade. Gently, it stirred
his wet, matted hair. Again, he thought of her face, though he now knew it had
only an illusion, he could not hope to force it from his mind. He didn't
consciously remember opening his mouth, though by the time he realized, the
hushed words had already been said.

"Lorelei..." He whispered. "I'm sorry..."

There was no answer save the distant, mournful howl of the winds.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Katrionah_Siren.html .
```
