# Moon Over Suomi

_by Lothe in **Dark Ages**_

_Why friends are here_  
_Is always clear,_  
_At your every smile or tear,_  
_They are there for you._  
_I have been asked_  
_Some times before,_  
_To tell what friends are for._  

Rays from the newborn sun danced and twirled on the dewstained grass of Alvars
field. Shannon bent over and carefully, gently plucked a large, moist grape
from the vines. The bright light of midmorning glittered on the wet surface of
the globular fruit, and the young monk could not help but pop a particularly
solid grape into her mouth.

She felt the purple globe explode in her mouth, the juice moistening her
tongue. She closed her eyes and absorbed ever small bit of flavor the fruit had
to offer. Shannon reopened her eyes, sliding the rest of the grapes into her
small rucksack along with the cherries from Goran's field.

Shannon had lived her life in Suomi, though that was not to say she had lived
long. Although only being in Temuair for about ten deochs, she had learned
much. She was an expert in several fighting styles, and almost at one with the
nature around her. Shannon held a light frame, making her all the more limber
than she already was. Although somewhat short, the people who had once mocked
her now knew to leave her be. Shannon had golden hair that imitated the shining
sun in the Suomi summer, and brown eyes, the color of chestnuts in autumn.

The young maid then carefully trod about the vineyard, winding her way back to
Alvar's hut. The mundane gave her a fond smile: she was well-known and liked
around her home town. She bowed and thanked him a few times, he blushed and
chuckled a bit, telling her she spoke too highly of him. Shannon gave Alvar one
more backward look and he smiled as she walked out the door.

***

Shannon seated herself at the simple oak table her father had built for her
family, carefully unpacking the grapes and cherries she had picked.

"Ripe harvest," her father commented.

"Aye," Shannon agreed. "And I think Alvar gave me a few extra grapes." She
winked at her father, and his azure eyes twinkled. "Even Goran was in a
moderately good mood today," she chuckled. Her father laughed, a deep rumbling
sound that carried a lifetime of happiness in it. He pulled Shannon up in a
bear hug, and she giggled and tossed her skinny arms as far around her father's
large frame as they'd go.

At that point, Shannon's mother walked into the room. She planted a light kiss
on her husband's cheek, and then on Shannon's forehead. Shannon backed up a
little, bending down and laughing. Her mother let out a loving laugh that made
Shannon giggle all the harder.

"And how was your day?" Shannon's mother asked, in a very motherly tone.

Shannon laughed a bit and replied, "Fine." She smiled at her mother in a very
innocent manner, causing the three of them to break out in peals of laughter.
After catching their breath, her mother announced, "I shall have to make cherry
pie soon!" Shannon grinned, her mother's cherry pies were the best for miles
and miles. Even the mundane bakers admitted her pastries' superiority.

"In the meantime," her father said, "what about lunch?"

***

Shannon's father, Methusala, was huge. The moss-green tunic he wore was barely
large enough for his bulky frame, and a mikly white beard bubbled from his chin
like foam. He looked strikingly like Alvar the grape farmer, with hair colored
to match his beard and a blad spot right at the top of his head. His eyes were
the exact opposite of Shannon's, a clear blue that sparkled like a
well-polished gem.

The young monk's mother, Kiri, was obviously where Shannon got many of her
traits. Kiri was small and skinny, almost to the point of being frail, with
swiftly aging skin. However, her mind was as sharp as it had ever been, it was
hard to fool Kiri. Her eyes were an emerald-colored green, somewhat diluted
with murky white, and a touch of jade at some spots.

Of course, some of Shannon's looks and abilities were her own entirely: her
eyes and her hair (for Kiri's was a jet black), and her agility were all things
she claimed for her own. Shannon's family was pious, following both the Lady
Glioca and Cail of Nature. Shannon seemed to be at one with the earth around
her, she could concentrate deeply if she wished to, as though drawing strength
form the world's essence.

Shannon had led a happy and peaceful life for her short ten deochs of
existence, living with her parents in Suomi. They farmed vegetables, and paid
Alvar and Goran to pick grapes and cherries from their fields. Even Hadrien
shared a few secrets with them, and Viveka was more than happy to have
Methusula dine on ale at her tavern. Shannon realized that she would eventually
have to leave her family and see the world; it was her calling. However, she
had no idea how soon and with how much ferocity the seperation would hit.

***

_Glass is fragile,_  
_Throw no stones,_  
_A key picked out_  
_Among the bones,_  
_And what help would be a friend,_  
_To pick up the pieces_  
_And start again._  

The night was dark, but not particularly cold. Shannon slept lightly, as she
always did, with the proverbial one eye open. Methusula was snoring loudly,
which was a nightly sound Shannon had gotten used to over the deochs. Kiri was
not quite such a heavy sleeper, but straddled the gap between Shannon and
Methusula.

From out in the darkness there was a low growl. Shannon paid it no heed, even
though it woke her slightly, since all wild areas made sounds like this during
the night. However, only a moment after, there was another growl. Shannon lept
lightly and landed deftly on her feet with barely a sound. She slid over to
where her father lay, giving him a short firm tap to the forehead.

Methusula woke amid grunts and queries, this was not the time he normally woke
up. Shannon swiftly quieted him, and Methusula nodded silently. His daughter
was small, but she did not make this sort of fuss over nothing.

"Listen," she hissed in the darkness. A few minutes and the growling came
again, this time decidedly closer. Methusula nodded at it.

"Let's wake Kiri," he told her. The two of them crept over to where Shannon's
mother lay. She needed no such firm tap as Methusula did, as soon as she sensed
something amiss she had woken.

"I heard," she confirmed. "Let us go downstairs and investigate."

Methusula stopped them at the doorway. He reached up to a huge plate at the
ceiling, which supported a sword of enormous size. The blade was a bluish that
looked like a crystal-distilled sky, and the handle was inset with several gems
which burned a fiery red; not rubies, but something else which Shannon couldn't
identify.

Her father hefted the blade and took a few brief practice swings, slicing the
air before him. He then nodded as though satisfied, and told them to continue
downstairs and put him at their fore.

As the family reached the bottom of the stairs, they saw nothing wrong. They
proceeded into the front room, where their simple wooden door remained shut.
Still pensive, they looked around the room. Suddenly the growl came once more,
from just beyond their door.

Methusula pulled his sword up. Shannon dropped into a fighting stance. Kiri
backed off behind the two.

At that point the door exploded inward. In a fury of growls and roars, a huge
beast stood at their doorway. It was huge, larger than anything Shannon had
ever seen, but resemble one of the tiny cats she had once looked at wandering
Viveka's in search of rats. The creature's eyes burned white, which seemed to
penetrate Shannon's soul, even though the thing was not looking in her
direction.

"_Shikami_! " her mother shrieked.

"Fiend!" Methusula rasped.

"Kelberoth," Shannon observed.

Methusula and Shannon shook themselves out of their trance and went into
action. Shannon concentrated, mentally drawing a bullseye over her target. Her
fists flew, pummeling the cat right behing the neck. The beast gave a fearsome
yowl, trying its best to bite back--only to find that Shannon was suddenly
behind it.

Methusula brought his sword down on the Kelberoth's angry orange hide, creating
a huge red gash. The beast screamed in fury and clawed Methusula. He shouted
and fell back. Then the beast sensed Kiri's prescense.

To the Kelberoth, Kiri was only prey--prey that was weak and could be easily
overrun and taken down. In a blast of light and roaring, the Kelberoth was
behind Shannon and Methusula. It spent half a second collecting itself, then
leapt once more, heading straight for Kiri.

Time seemed frozen at that instant, and then the dam broke as the Kelberoth's
huge paw slammed down against Kiri's skull, the latter letting escape a scream
of fear and pain before falling eternally silent.

Methusula, despite his wounds, was suddenly thrown into a fury. He brought his
blade down against the beast again and again, flanks and back and head, not
stopping for anything. The creature ripped and clawed back at him, but
Methusula seemed impervious to pain. Finally he drove the sword into the
creature's back one last time, and it gave a terrible gurgle as its death
knell.

It was then that the full effect of Methusula's wounds washed upon him, a wave
breaking against a crumbling shore. He suddenly crumpled in pain, blood
coursing from the rips and cuts and gashes made the by the huge cat's fury.
Shannon bent down over her father, holding him and begging him not to die. He
rasped a few breaths, and she heard his final words:

"I love you."

Shannon suddenly burst into tears, the small droplets running burning rivulets
down the contours of her cheek, streaming from her eyes and dropping small wet
spots onto her father's tunic. She spasmed with racking sobs, until the sound
of her own crying finally lulled her to sleep.

***

The next morning she awoke, stiff and sore from sleeping with her head on her
father's soft tunic. She pushed herself up to the ugly reality she now had to
deal with. Shannon looked around the room, seeing the plain oaken table and the
three simple chairs surrounding it, all made by her father. She saw the gently
sculpted honey jars and knew her mother had spent hours crafting and painting
them. She looked at the forms of her parents, mostly cold except the spot where
her head had lain the night before.

She did her best to dig graves for them, which ended up being a bit shallow,
and laid them in the twin holes, in front of the house they had lived in and
loved for so long. As though in mockery of Shannon's mood, the sun shined
bright and happy that day.

Shannon returned to her house, her parent's house, built almost completely by
her father's handiwork. She found the small sack she had gathered grapes and
cherries in for deochs, filling it with food and supplies. Then she went in
turn to each of the mundanes, telling them her story and how she was now going
to leave Suomi for whatever lay in the rest of Temuair. Viveka was unhappy for
having lost the best customer she'd had in deochs, and packed Shannon's bag
with bottled water and some wine for making potions with.

Alvar offered her some grapes in case she got hungry, the baker stuffed in some
baguettes and even Goran offered his condolences and best wishes on her
journey. He also gave her some free cherries, though he pointedly made a fuss
over how much he was going to lose in profits for it.

Then Shannon departed Suomi, knowing that she may not come back for a long
time.

***

The first time she stopped was early midday, for she had eaten no breakfast and
the hunger was beginning to gnaw at her. She sat down on a rock under a large
shady tree. It was a weeping willow, bending over her protectively as her
parents had done only a few days before. Quietly, Shannon ate her lunch,
selecting some ripe cherries and ripping off a bit of baguette. It wasn't a
large meal, but it would do.

She then continued on, up Undine's sharply angled roads. She saw few people,
which she was used to, having been raised on a remote farm in Suomi. Eventually
night fell, and even Shannon had to find rest. She located this in the form of
a small inn just off the road.

The building was somewhat broken down, but a bed was a bed. She walked up to
the innkeeper and handed her a few coins. The mundane looked at her, somewhat
surprised to see such a young child traveling on her own. She pushed the coins
back toward Shannon.

"You look beaten, young one."

Shannon nodded.

"Tonight you shall sleep for free, provided in the morning you tell me what
brings you here."

To this Shannon nodded greatfully, plodded up the stairs and collapsed into a
bed.

***

In the morning Shannon awoke. She told the mundane her story, who only nodded
silently as if in confirmation. Then the young monk again began working her way
through Undine, in search of she did not know what. Eventually she came to the
town's edge.

There she found a small dock. Shannon knew that every so often, ships came to
take people to Abel and deposit other at Undine. She decided she would take one
of these ships. She flagged down a passerby and asked him if he knew when the
next ship was due to arrive. He smiled slightly when he saw the young but
confident girl that had asked him the question.

"Yer in luck," her replied, and Shannon deteced a slight accent in his voice.
"The next ship comes in t'day. I think 'tis due in about three hours."

Shannon nodded and thanked the man, then sat down for the long three-hour wait.

Soon Shannon did indeed see a ship cresting the horizon, its mast poking up
above the waves and then the figuredhead at the prow braving the way. Shannon
jumped up and waited patiently for the ship. That was, as patiently as she
could after sitting and trying not to die of boredom for three hours.

Finally the ship arrived at the dock. She paid the fare, then boarded the ship.
A passenger looked kindly at her, and informed her the ship wouldn't leave for
another hour, and it would be about three days before they got back to Abel.
Shannon thanked this woman also and started wandering the ship.

It was a large wooden contraption, which didn't look as though it should even
float, much less sail. However, it obviously did, and had been doing so for a
long time. Shannon stood at the prow and looked down at the crystal-clear water
beneath her, spreading out for as far as she could see. This held her in a
trance for a long time, until suddenly the ship began to move.

***

It was a long journey. Shannon, however, was inheriently likable and seemed to
have no trouble finding company. She told several people her story, some nodded
and some offered sympathy or commisuration. She chatted with several people, on
any number of topics. A few people told her about Abel, what to see and where
to go. She thanked each one politely, delivering a bow as well.

Eventually, Abel came into sight. It was a bustling port city, a place busier
than anything Shannon had ever seen. Squat buildings crouched at every corner,
hunched-over weapons shops and all number and form of other goods seemed to be
sold there.

Shannon disembarked her sailing vessle, standing carefully for a few moments on
the ground so she wouldn't suddenly pitch forward after being on the ship so
long. Then she walked forward a bit, marvelling at the structures and goods in
this city.

Suddenly she was knocked into. "Oh! I'm sorry!" a female voice called. It was a
voice only a tad older than Shannon's, prehaps 15 or 18 deochs old. Shannon
looked up to the sound's source, finding another monk. Her hair was a deep
blue, a sort of burnished version of Abel's concrete. She had ice-blue eyes,
yet they radiated kindness. "My apologies," she added.

Shannon nodded mutely for a moment, and then finally uttered, "H-h-hello." The
other monk smiled at her and giggled. This forced Shannon to smile as well, and
before long both of them were grinning and laughing as though they were
sisters.

Finally, Shannon managed to gain back enough breath to ask the monk, "What's
your name?"

"Seeiyou," the monk replied. "It is in the native Abelian language, which has
been rather lost with the advent of the Milethian tongue. It means, 'light
bringer'."

Shannon looked at her and said, "That's a very pretty name."

The other monk smiled at this and said, "Most people just call me See."

Shannon nodded, trying the name a few times on her tongue. Then she asked See
if she would show her around Abel a bit.

"Of course!" See replied happily. "I grew up here, and we don't get a whole lot
of company--everyone's just going someplace." The two girls spent the rest of
the day together, then See gave Shannon the coins to pay for a night at the
inn, telling her she'd be there in the morning for her.

***

As promised, Seeiyou was waiting at the main room of the inn, seated at one of
the tables, when Shannon walked down. She stretched and yawned a few times,
then walked over to where See was seated, pulling out a chair and plopping down
in it.

The mundane turned from them, as long as they weren't disrupting the patronage
or tying to talk to her she was disintrested in them. Seeiyou looked at Shannon
for a moment, then told her, "You're not from around here. Why'd you come?"

Shannon pulled a breath inward for a moment as though she were going to say
something, then let it back out in a sigh. "I come from Suomi," she told
Seeiyou.

"Long walk," the other monk obserbved.

"Why I am here is quite simple. I have nowhere else." If Shannon had been
expecting for a gasp or some other exclamation of surprise, it did not come.
Seeiyou merely nodded and said, "Go on."

"About a week ago, a Kelberoth broke into our home and killed my mother and
father. I buried them, packed some belongings and here I am." See nodded
somberly.

"I have heard all too many of these stories," she said. A tear trickled down
her face, leaving behind it a moist and decidedly bent trail. "But prehaps
there is something we can do. Running away from it will nay help ye. Return to
it. I shall accompany ye to Suomi, I have more than enough fare."

Shannon contemplated this a moment, then put on a dejected face. "But what is
there to return to?" she asked.

"What of your cabin?" Seeiyou responded.

"Nay," Shannon said. "Surely the mundanes have taken it apart and burned it for
firewood by now."

"Nay!" Seeiyou protested. "I know mundanes well from living in this city. They
have a deep respect for the past, and would never harm something that is not
given up. Or even some things that have been."

"Then we shall return to Suomi," Shannon said quietly. "I have nought better to
do, at any rate." Seeiyou nodded. "There's a ship coming in two days from now,"
she said. "We'll take that one." So they set about two day's worth of
preperation.

***

Finally, it came. Another three-day ship ride, but at least this time around
Shannon had steady company. The two of them told stories or found new people to
meet. The three days passed far quicker going than coming.

***

Eventually they made landfall at Undine. They spent a full day journeying
steadily until they reached the edge of the town. They realized they would have
to camp that night, so they chose a shady tree and set up a tent. There they
promptly fell to sleep.

***

The next morning was bright and cloudless, the sun beating on them as they
packed up their tent and began into Suomi. Shannon told Seeiyou it was not far
then until they reached her small cabin. As they walked, Shannon explained the
culture and legends of Suomi and its people.

At about midday they reached the cabin. Sure enough, the house was still
standing, exactly as Shannon had left it. The two small stones Shannon had
implanted in the ground still marked where her parents now lay. The door was
still splintered, there were still small crimson splatters on the floor.

As soon as Shannon set foot inside the house, the sobs came once more. Vivid
memories of her parents, both in life and in death, flooded her. Seeiyou stood
in the doorway a few minutes, watching and looking about the house. Finally,
after what seemed an eternity of minutes, Seeiyou stepped forward into the
house.

Shannon felt a consoling arm around her, and tried her best to calm her
bursting sobs. She pulled up an arm to wipe away the wetness on her
tearstreaked face, and saw Seeiyou looking down at her. She stood up a little,
coming closer to eye-to-eye with her friend. She asked her a simple question:
"Why? Why did they have to die and leave me?"

Seeiyou looked at her a moment longer and then said, "They may have died, but
they haven't left you Shannon."

"Yes they have!" Shannon shouted, suddenly exploding. "The Kelberoth killed
them! They're gone! Gone!"

Seeiyou again placed a hand on Shannon's shoulder, calming her. "They're not
gone," she repeated. "They're watching. They know you miss them. But just
because their physical bodies are gone doesn't mean their spirits are."

Shannon looked at the monk a moment, thinking about what she had just been
told. Silently, she started wandering the house.

***

That evening, the two of them sat on the grass by Shannon's cabin, looking up
at a cloudless sky and a moon the shined down brightly on them. Shannon looked
over at Seeiyou and said, "Maybe I will live here after all." Seeiyou smiled
and responded, "But you'd better come visit me."

"Of course!" Shannon giggled. "As often as I can."

"Good," Seeiyou said. "I'd hate for you to leave me!" and they both fell down
giggling.

Then Shannon regained her breath and propped herself up in the grass, which
tickled and poked at the bare skin of her arm. She stared up at the moon, which
was a beautiful murky white, and she could feel her parents smiling down at
her.

***

_Now you know the answer to_  
_What you asked of me before_  
_I've told you once_  
_And would again_  
_Just what friends are for._  


***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Lothe_Moon.html .
```
