# Confessions

_by Lothe in **Dark Ages**_

_Author's Note: This is a work of fiction. Any resemblance to
any aisling, living or dead, reflected in any of the characters, is
coincidental._

## I. Shady Characters

Aaron was a commanding presence. His blue eyes were piercing, as though they
revealed the secrets of whomever his gaze was set on. He was roughly an inch
taller than anyone else he'd ever met, adding to the imposing look he carried.

Aaron was usually dressed in a plain lorica, brown leather carefully tanned and
tailored so it could resist many blows. The man's hair was blue, spiked, and
Aaron took pride in some of the looks he got for it. Aaron always carried a
large, shining battle sword, a sword his father had carried into combat, and
his father before him, and so on, and everyone in the line had kept the blade
impeccably polished.

Aaron enjoyed the hunt. To hunt until he could be proclaimed a true Master of
his path was not his goal. He wanted a moment to be isolated from the world,
contained entirely within the passion of combat. This, ironically, was Aaron's
time to think”.

The sun was at its zenith that day, shining down on the world at a temperature
comfortable for living. Aaron walked calmly through a clearing in the woods,
removed from the world at large. With him was his friend Randolph, a quiet monk
with a red culotte and ruddy hair.

Aaron respected Randolph, he was often silent but held his convictions as
though they were lain in concrete, and he could speak movingly about them if
the mood took him. The two sat down in the clearing, Aaron splaying his legs
out in front of him, Randolph hunching over and hugging his legs close to
himself.

The two sat silently in the clearing together, contemplating the blue sky,
which was filled occasionally with puffs of white cloud that drifted lazily
over the treetops. Randolph set his gaze back down to the verdant grass.

Quickly, soundlessly, Aaron drew the sword that was strapped across his back.
Randolph merely grunted as the sword slid into his back and out his front.
Aaron gave the sword a brief twist, causing Randolph to jerk and gasp loudly,
then withdrew the blade once more.

Randolph's body, eyes wide and glazed over, collapsed back on the grass as
though it had decided to sun itself. "Sorry buddy,” Aaron muttered to the
corpse, "there was a price on your head.”

***

"Barkeep, make that two brandies!” The rogue held up two fingers to emphasize
his point, then laughed loudly. His hair was black and slicked back with a
heavy dose of some odd gel. His eyes were chestnut brown and shimmered with a
lust for life. His green dwarven leather was kept in fairly new condition,
though it had its share of smudges where he'd taken a pounding before.

The barkeep grinned, caught up in the excitement of the impromptu celebration,
and slid two brandies across the splintered wood counter. The rogue turned to
another man sitting next to him. It was a younger rogue, dressed in common grey
scout leather. He was also, apparently, the older rogue's student.

The elder rogue turned to his disciple and held up one of the mugs the
barkeeper had given them. "This, boy,” he announced, "is the finest alcohol
money can buy. In these parts, anyway. Now, heed m' words, there's a proper way
t' drink this stuff too.” The rogue set the mug to his lips and talked
carefully. "This ain't the sorta stuff you can let dribble. You just can't
afford t' lose any of it!”

The rogue returned his eyes to the bottom of his cup and finished half the
brandy in one loud slurp. He banged the cup back down on the counter, causing a
bit of the vile brew to leap into the air like a fish before returning to the
strangely colored sea from which it came.

"Like that,” he concluded proudly.

The man's student lifted his mug clumsily imitated his mentor. A bit of the
drink spilled down the side of the boy's suit and his mentor let out a loud
guffaw. The older man returned his hand to the mug's handle, securing it
tightly in his fist.

The rogue took another long draught, finishing off his brandy, and watched his
student try a second time. Not so much liquid was lost in this slurp, and the
rogue applauded loudly, causing several nearby drunks to break into a standing
ovation for a reason they didn't understand.

The elder rogue turned again to his student. "Now you pay yer tab,” he
announced. "Watch.” He put two fingers into his mouth and whistled loudly. The
barkeep turned and noticed him wave a "finished” to her, and she shuffled over.
The rogue slammed several coins onto the table, the a little more than the
amount he owed.

The barkeep smiled and thanked him. The rogue grinned over at his student and
said loudly, "Yer welcome, m'am, and have a good evn'in!” The barkeep's smile
grew and she told him to have a good night as well, then picked up their mugs
and returned to the other end of the little box she occupied.

A raucous cheer erupted from across the bar. The rogue looked over to see the
source of the excitement. He saw the dancing girl performing a heady jig and
eliciting shout after shout from her drunken audience. He motioned to his
student and the two of them stood up.

"Now,” he said slyly to the boy, "It's time for your next lesson.”

***

The night was apparent in full now as Aaron made his way carefully through the
streets of Rucesion. The air was cool, but comfortably so, and the stone of the
streets had become easier to walk on. The buildings loomed like concrete
phantoms over the shadows clouding the roads, their decrepit, creaking signs
hanging on rusted metal poles.

Finally Aaron found the place he was searching for. A shadowed figure stood in
the doorframe, holding the door open with one hand and beckoning to Aaron with
the other. The figure's eyes seemed to glow a sinister white in the half-light
of the full moon.

Aaron looked doubtfully behind himself for a moment, as though he thought
someone might be following him. He found there nothing but his quaking
conscience.

## II. A Trail of Bloody Footprints

A guard stood, staring at a parchment that had been tacked to the Rucesion
board, and most of the other boards in Temuair.� His turquoise hair melded
nicely with his similarly-colored tabard, and a strange look had crossed his
face and decided to take up residence there.

The parchment was a warning. It read:

> _To all citizens of Temuair \-_
>
> _Be on your guard. Less than a moon ago, a young
> monk by the name of Randolph was found in the woods. He was not entirely
> located: his head was not attached to his body. Authorities investigating the
> death said that there were no signs of struggle, rather, a clean sword wound
> was made directly through the boy's middle._
>
> _The only other mark of attack is, of course, the missing head. Aaron, the
> monk's mentor, is reportedly devastated and begs for any information anyone
> might have regarding the death. Pigeon service to both Aaron and legal
> officials with information about the crime is free._
>
> _Walk safely, citizens._

Several people passed by, some peering curiously at the notice. The young guard
continued to stand, motionless.

***

The wind blew sullenly through the trees, rustling their branches quietly. The
Altar of Mileth stood tall and strong on even this cloudy day, when most people
remained in bed for rain or laziness. At the large offering stone stood two
lone forms, their hair whipped by the wind.

If one had seen them earlier, one might have recognized their look; they were
the rogues in the tavern but two days ago. The elder was Adrian, his younger
student Leon. Leon had the same orange-red hair Randolph had possessed, though
it was pulled above his eyes more.

Adrian reached into his rucksack and extracted two beothaich deums. He handed
one solemnly to Leon. Adrian looked quietly across at Leon, then up at the
great stone gaze of the statue. He said quietly, "We're here to offer homage to
the gods and to the memory of the young monk who died not moons ago.”

Leon nodded silently, and the two of them set their beothaich deums in the
altar. The potions sat for an instant, then were enveloped in a flash of light
and sucked away to gods-knew-where.

The wind picked up for a moment, and Adrian and Leon braced themselves against
the unexpected gust. Just as suddenly the wind died down and settled back into
the moping breeze that had been caressing them seconds before.

***

Nearly three double-moons had passed since Randolph's death. Aaron sat in
another remote corner of the woods with Gabrielle. Gabrielle had oaken hair,
pulled up in buns around her ears. She wore a nicely tailored cuirass, and a
quiet smile on her lips.

"It's a beautiful day,” Gabrielle said happily. 

"Not as beautiful as you,” Aaron grinned. He was a master of cliché, but his
was the sort of cliché that caused women to swoon and fall hopelessly in love
with him. Gabrielle did just this.

Gabrielle's smile widened and she looked over at Aaron, already feeling a
fondness for this charismatic—and handsome—man. Aaron gave Gabrielle another
generic, endearing compliment and she giggled like a little girl.

Their conversation continued in this vein, and by the end of several hours'
time Gabrielle was in love with Aaron. She leaned over and caught him up in a
passionate kiss, which he returned with such feeling. As the two were locked
together Aaron reached into his belt for a small dagger he'd hidden there.

Then Aaron moved his arm around Gabrielle's back, dagger in hand, and towards
her neck.

***

The next day a new warning was to be found on the Temuairian notice boards. It
related that there had been a second killing and urged citizens to travel in
numbers, and especially not to be in a remote spot alone. There was almost no
information to be had about Gabrielle's death, except that there once again
seemed to be no struggle and her lover did not seem outwardly affected by her
death. Of course, Temuairian psychologists reasoned, this was his way of
showing grief.

At the small message slate in Mileth City, the grass rustled quietly, unaware
of the surrounding world.


***

In the dark of deep-night, a shadowed form slunk towards a house in Mileth. It
was the house of Gabrielle's lover, and the only residence with candles still
burning in a few of its windows. The night was black, the moon obscured by
unmoving clouds.

In this demonic half-death a form advanced slowly on the house. The door was
very slightly ajar, and the figure could easily push it open and slip in.
Suddenly the form stopped moving. Aaron looked at the door, sensing again that
he was being watched.

And once again, all he saw behind him was darkness.

## III. New Toys for Fate

Adrian and Leon offered up a second pair of beothaich deums in memory of
Gabrielle. Again the day was cloudy—so many days seemed to be dark as of late.
Adrian reflected sadly to himself, Such is the age we live in.

***

Aaron walked broodingly among the citizens of Mileth, listening to the calls of
peasants and beggars—occasionally one and the same. His very demeanor scared
off these vagabonds and curs; even the respectable did not approach him.

Aaron silently passed building after building, not even glancing up at the
imposing visage of the altar, which, today, seemed to have a reprimanding look
on its face, partially stern and partially as though keeping a steady vigil
against evil for the citizens under its shadow.

Tucked away in his reverie, Aaron did not notice the two rogues coming down the
path towards him, and, so involved in their conversation were they, that
neither of them noticed him either. That is, not until the three of them
collided with a resounding oof!

Aaron spat curses and rubbed his head. He whipped around and grabbed the elder
rogue by the collar. "You!” he raged.

"Woah, woah,” the rogue said, holding his hands in a motion of good intentions.
"Didn't mean t' run into ya, pal. Simple mistake.” He chuckled, a contrived
sound that fooled no one. Aaron stared daggers at the man a moment longer and
then every part of him seemed to relax. He set the rogue down and backed off.

Now the rogue's companion, a second rogue, came forward. He was dressed in
scout leather that he seemed to be about ready to outgrow. He regarded Aaron
silently and looked over at the elder rogue, who was dusting himself off from
the encounter.

"Anyway,” the man said, sounding quite confident and unshaken, "Who're you?”

"I might put the same question to you,” Aaron said coldly.

The rogue laughed, for real this time. "Fair enough. I'm Adrian, this ‘ere's me
student Leon.” Leon merely nodded at his mentor's assailant.

"I'm Aaron,” the warrior responded, still little hint of feeling in his voice.

"In way of apology, lemme buy you a drink,” the rogue said genially.

"I don't drink,” Aaron responded, still eyeing his new acquaintance.

"Shame,” Adrian said. "But the tavern's a good place anyway.”

"You only think that once you're drunk,” Aaron muttered.

"Ahh, got no sense of adventure?” Adrian said teasingly. Aaron was a bit miffed
but tried to control his temper.

"Leave me alone,” he snorted, and walked on.

When Aaron was out of earshot, Adrian turned to his student. "Well,” he said
amicably, "affable fellow, isn't he?”

***

Over the next moons Aaron, Adrian, and Leon met frequently in the streets of
Mileth. A strange relationship it was indeed, and Adrian took note of Aaron's
volatile temper.

He's nearly killed several people—myself included—for minor slips of courtesy,
Adrian thought to himself. Shortly after such an incident, Leon turned to his
esteemed mentor. "Master, I think something's odd about that Aaron,” he said
carefully.

"You and me both,” Adrian agreed, and they watched the brooding warrior
disappear down the street.

***

"It's been nearly three double-moons since Gabrielle's murder,” Leon observed
one day.

"It has,” Adrian confirmed. "But remember, her murder was not till nearly three
double-moons after Randolph's killing.” The two of them shivered despite a warm
day.

Aaron suddenly seemed to appear out of nowhere. "Hello, boys,” he said quietly.

"Ah, greets,” Adrian said, waving despite the fact that Aaron was only a few
feet away.

Aaron cut right to the core of his business. "Adrian—do you enjoy the hunt?”

"Sometimes,” Adrian responded guardedly. The way Aaron expressed the statement
carried far more meaning than was seen at face value.

"Good. I know the perfect little place to learn a few things about combat,”
Aaron said, a smirk beginning to form at the edges of his lips. "Want to come?”

Adrian shot a glance over at Leon, whose eyes said he was thinking the same
thing. "Alright,” Adrian said carefully.

Aaron eyed the two of them briefly. "Wonderful.”

## IV. Daemon Rising

In due time the little party arrived at the entrance to the Mileth Crypt.

"Down there,” Aaron nodded towards the giant earthen capsule rising from the
ground. Adrian and Leon began to advance. "No,” Aaron interrupted. "The boy
stays.” Adrian looked back at Leon, who nodded. Adrian looked this time at
Aaron. The mighty warrior took a step inside and called back, "I'll be
waiting.”

***

The crypt was dank and humid from the previous night's rain. The walls were
covered in ever-expanding blankets of moss, and tiny rodents scrabbled around,
scattering loose pebbles and dirt.

"It's this way,” Aaron said, guiding Adrian past tombs and treasure chests.
They descended floor after floor. Strangely enough, almost no creatures
bothered them during their trip, and those foolish enough to get in their way
Aaron handily dispatched with his battle sword.

Finally, after nearly two hours of walking around cold stone and down stairs,
Aaron announced, "Here we are.”

Adrian looked around himself. Nothing seemed much different here than up on the
first floor. "What level are we on?” he asked Aaron.

"The twenty-second,” the warrior responded.

"We grow near to the true darkness that lurks below,” Adrian said, starting to
tremble a little.

"Don't worry,” Aaron assured him, "We're not going any deeper.” His voice grew
dangerous. "Right here is just fine.” With the smooth sound of sliding steel
Aaron extracted his battle sword from its sheath. He stood for a moment,
staring intensely at Adrian, who did not so much as blink under his withering
gaze.

Aaron took a step forward, slowly. There was no sound other than the occasional
rat scuttling for cover. Aaron pulled his sword closer to his center, readying
himself for combat. This time there would be signs of a struggle.

Adrian could tell what was happening, had been expecting it. He drew a dagger
and dropped into a fighting stance. He began to slide forward. "Ah ah,” Aaron
said, waving a finger like a mother scolding her child. "Naughty naughty.”
Adrian simply stared at Aaron, whose eyes were now sparking as though he were
enjoying himself.

"You killed them, didn't you?” Adrian asked stonily.

"About damn time someone figured it out,” Aaron responded gruffly. "The men in
the big suits haven't got a clue how to solve a crime.”

"You mean this entire thing was a game?” Adrian asked in disbelief.

"Not at all,” Aaron said casually. "That was a bonus. I got paid for both those
killings.”

"Wha...who? Why?”

"Randolph was legally clean, but he'd had some run-ins with a local gang. Their
little wanna-be assassins couldn't pull it off, so they put a price on his
head. I just happened to be in town when they did.” Adrian stared at Aaron,
shocked that a man could run a friend through for a couple of coins.

"Gabrielle's lover suspected she was cheating on him. If he wasn't right at
first, he was when I was through with her.” He laughed, an empty, grating
sound. Adrian's mouth moved but no sound came out.

"Speechless? They were, too.” He smirked. "And pretty soon you will be.
Permanently.”

## V.   A Candle in the Darkness

Even the rats were silent as Aaron fixed his baleful gaze on Adrian. Finally
the rogue regained awareness. His eyes focused on the warrior in front of him,
who was taking slow steps forward, sword at the ready.

Adrian looked at the man, and suddenly splayed out his arms in a T shape. "You
wanna kill me?” he smirked. "Go ahead. If that's the worst thing that happens
to me today I can be happy.”

Aaron stopped a moment, surprised at the audacity of the man in front of him.
Then a snarl curled his lips and he resumed his advance.

"There's only one more thing I wanna know,” Adrian piped up.

Aaron stopped and grinned sadistically at his next victim. "Shoot.”

Adrian let a cocky grin cross his face. "Why do the evil villains always reveal
their plans in the end?”

Aaron let out a laugh, chilling though it was. "If we didn't tell someone
there'd be no one to write them down, would there?” He hefted his sword again
and started forth once more.

Aaron was but four paces from Adrian, savoring his victory and his next murder.
Rewards aside, there was a sadistic pleasure in this.

Suddenly, a single word from Adrian split the air. "Why?”

Aaron stopped in his tracks. The syllable seemed to echo throughout the crypt,
reverberating off walls and forgotten stone tombs. The word cavorted about in
Aaron's mind, confounding his pleasure and striking hard into the open wounds
of his conscience.

Why?

Aaron looked hard at Adrian, who was resolutely holding his prone pose, doing
nothing more than staring straight back.

Without warning Aaron fell to his knees, staring at the dark ground. A single
tear tumbled down his soft cheek, leaving a damp trail and shattering silently
on the stone.

For what seemed like an eternity, Aaron was locked within himself, grappling
with the soul-bending question Adrian had doled out to him. Finally he felt a
gentle hand come to rest on his shoulder, and he looked up. Standing above him
was Adrian, looking down. The rogue's face was sad, but a glimmer of light
still sparkled in his eyes.

Adrian helped Aaron to his feet. Then he motioned with a nod of his head, and
the two began a long, relieving climb.

## VI. The Dawn is Breaking

Clouds were still dominating the sky when the two emerged silently from the
crypt. Leon was still standing there, watching silently for his mentor to
return, as he had known he would.

"I know what happens next,” Aaron said, resigned to his fate. "But before we
visit the burgess, I have something I have to do.” Adrian nodded, and the three
went to the Mileth altar, where the stone statue's face seemed to have
softened.

Aaron reverently removed the battle sword his ancestors had carried from its
sheath. He turned to face the altar full on. "I have profaned this blade with
my actions,” he said, more to the statue than to the company around him. He
said a brief prayer for the blade and asked his ancestors to forgive him. Then,
lovingly, he placed the sword on the offering stone.

A quiet white light seemed to reach out to accept to sword, and swiftly it,
too, was gone, and around Aaron was a bright flash of light. A smile, quiet but
satisfied, crossed the warrior's face.

"I have done my duty,” he said solemnly, and the three of them began back down
the road.

***

Well, ladies and gents, that's just what happened. Aaron resigned to tell it
all to me, even if he was silent to you. Can't explain that, he's a funny man.
But I think this'll do for incriminating evidence.

Glad I could be of service, and happy that pigeon's still free.

_Most sincerely,_  
_Adrian Larouge_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Lothe_Confessions.htm .
```
