# Morrigan's Shadow

_by Morrigan and Maerista in **Dark Ages**_

## Battle in the Forest

"Get out of my face!" Morrigan yelled as she smacked a kobold over the head
with a small thick branch. The branch hit the kobold dead center, right above
the eyes. It was a lucky shot.

Morrigan, a Priestess almost 20 years of age, was perhaps the farthest you
could get from a typical priest. The kobold seemed unharmed by the hit, and
swiped at Morrigan with its dagger. Morrigan narrowly avoided it. Meanwhile
Toirsa, one of Morrigan's few friends in life, was fighting a different kobold
while being watched by her tense student Elisabeth. Both followed the path of
the monk.

Toirísa stepped quickly to the side to avoid the kobold's Jab with a short
sword, and returned with a swift kick before dashing behind him, where she
punched the thing in the back. There was a cracking noise and a scream as the
kobold fell to the ground - Toirísa had broken its back.

"Torri!!" Morrigan yelled, sounding rather worried. "A little help here!"

Toirísa spun around to see Morrigan. She had done it again - become the center
of the action. She was being backed up against a tree by 2 kobolds who must
have had only one thing on their mind - dinner. Toirísa knew exactly how to
handle the situation, after all this wasn't the first time such a thing had
happened. KELBEROTH STRIKE!

Morrigan saw the shock go though the body of one of the kobolds. She had
learned about this attack from her friendship and knew exactly what to do. With
the kobolds distracted she dashed to the middle of the path where she had
dropped her Holy Hermes. Snatching it up she needed to concentrate for but a
moment before the healing light circled Toirísa several times. Elisabeth, who
had gone unnoticed by the kobolds, took her chances and struck one in the back
repeatedly while they both attacked Toirísa. The kobolds fell quickly as the
two monks broke several bones in their bodies.

"Oy" Morrigan mumbled as she sat on the ground, "Seems like every time we clear
this path thought the East Woods to Piet, them darn kobolds come back and then
some." She turned to face her friends.

"These were particularly weak if you ask me," Toirísa said, as she seemed to
have barely broken a sweat. "Wouldn't you agree Elisabeth?"

Elisabeth did not answer.

"Well at least we made the road safe, for today at least," Morrigan said
smiling. "Though I feel as if we are getting into a rut. We seem to do this at
least every 10 days now and the path is always full. And hey Elisabeth? Do you
ever speak?"

Elisabeth opened her mouth as if to speak, but then stopped and never said a
word.

"I see," Morrigan went on. "Well... the sun is setting, we'd better get back to
town."

The three friends picked themselves up and returned to Mileth and the Inn.

## Ree

"Morrigan?" said a soft female voice. Morrigan rolled over in her bed.
"Morrigan?" it repeated still soft and friendly. "Morrigan..." it repeated with
some force. "MORRIGAN!" it yelled, finally, with a harsh tone to it. "Huh?
what?" Morrigan awoke, startled, sitting up in her bed. "Morrigan..." The voice
said much friendlier now, "it's not nice to keep your mother waiting."

Morrigan woke up, shocked. "Mom? You're... you're dead!" Morrigan said, half
awake. It was Morrigan's mother, also known as Ree. She had a black dress on, a
simple one, giving her the appearance of a well dressed peasant. Her hair was a
soft blue, not too bright, but not too dark. It was long too, going down past
her knees. One could not tell her age by her looks - she was supposedly over
100 years of age yet appeared to be only 17 at the most.

"I still am," Ree muttered.

"But... then... what? I don't understand."

"You will. Turn to the last pages of my diary."

"They're blank aren't they mother? I've read the whole book from cover to
cover. I don't see how a single soul could ever do what you did, nor do I see
how the two..."

"Open the book to them my dear, you will see" Morrigan's mom said
reassuringly. Cold as ever. She was always like this.

Morrigan grabbed her bag that she carried her things in and quickly pulled a
book with a metal cover out. It was locked but the lock had no keyhole on it.
Morrigan grabbed the lock. It was a special design by her mother built only to
open when the hand of Morrigan or her mom was wrapped around it. Morrigan
squeezed it. Click! The lock opened. She quickly flipped through the pages to
the last one. "It's empty Mother!" Morrigan exclaimed, "Just like I said...
Mother?" Morrigan looked around.

"Behind you" Ree said lighting a candle with a touch, setting it on the table
in the room. "Place the book on the table and sit down. You will have some
reading to do in a moment."

Morrigan followed her Mother's orders, without question, without even stopping
to think if this was some sort of trick.

"Take this" Ree said, handing a dagger to Morrigan. "But first, I want you to
do one thing."

"Yes mother?" Morrigan said, a little nervously.

"Hug me, please. I may only be an illusion, but it's hard to explain, I am all
that's left and after you do what you are about to, I fear I will be nothing
more than a voice guiding you if I am lucky," Ree said. She was about to burst
into tears, yet she maintained a straight face.

"Mother... I..." Morrigan said. She too was about to cry, and Ree could tell,
so she hugged her little girl.

"I'm sorry..." Ree said, showing no signs of the emotional chaos she was
feeling deep inside. "I'm sorry, I never said goodbye." She looked at the
ground.

"Mom" Morrigan said, now crying. The two embraced, and held each other
tightly.

A tear fell down Ree's cheek. "Come on Morrigan..." Ree said, her voice
unchanged. "It's really easy, you to cut yourself, draw blood, and let at least
one drop fall on the book..."

"I don't want to..." said Morrigan still crying. "I want to stay here with
you, forever..."

"I knew you'd say that," Ree sighed, "and I knew I'd have to do this..."

Ree grabbed Morrigan's hand and held it over the book with one hand. She then
with her other free hand grabbed the dagger and cut Morrigan carefully on the
tip of her finger to draw just a little blood. A soft "Ow" escaped Morrigan's
lips as the blade crossed her fingertip. Ree smiled, and kissed Morrigan on the
forehead. "Goodbye," she said, and faded like a mist from the room. Morrigan
fell out of the chair, her weight no longer supported by Ree, and she cried for
what seemed like hours.

Morrigan awoke with the sun. Was she dreaming? She started to get up. Boink!
She hit her head on the table. No she hadn't been. 'The Book!' she thought.
'What happened to it!' Quickly she got up on the chair and looked at the last
two pages of the book. They were covered in red ink that had not been there
before. She read:

_Morrigan, it is time you learn the Truth - what I have hidden from you all
these years. I will start off by saying that I am writing this message to you,
my dear dear girl, on our ship. My dear, if only you knew of the mistakes one
can make in 923 years. I have read too far into fate and see I have very little
time. I have read fate, and know, or knew rather, that you would one day read
this message, and now you know that as you read this you are guided by an
inescapable fate that will bring you to freedom of this life without a choice,
a life I only thought I was going to live. Alas I was cheated, tricked into
creating you. Yes I created you - you have no father. You will understand more
later. If I tell you more now, fate may change, and you may be forever living
by it. One day we will be together, but there is only one way to do that my
dear. There will be a message board in the town you are staying in, the town
will be Mileth, do not ask how I know this. Go to that message board and find a
post by your friend Maerista. Do not let her die! Follow her where ever she is
headed - you will understand why later._

_Remember, I always loved you._

_I always will love you no matter where or what you are._

_Ree Shi, Danaan 3291_

Morrigan got up out of the chair, quickly packed her things, and left for the
noticeboard. From there... only fate knew.

## Even Darkness Casts a Shadow

Maerista scrambled up the incline, pulling herself between two giant rocks that
seemed to be acting almost as gatekeepers to this desolate land in which she
now found herself. It was the fall of the 8th Deoch, and already the white
tongues of frost had begun to invade these hills.

Mae paused briefly, to catch her breath, and looked behind her to see how far
she had come. Not far in physical terms, it must be said. She had travelled for
a double moon, northwards from Suomi, her homeland. A grim march towards what
she fully expected to be her doom.

For the hundredth time she pulled two documents from her pack. The first, her
own notes on the Book of the Black Cow, recently unearthed in Pravat. And the
second, a book written by Rookerin entitled "To See With Eyes Unclouded" which
she had found hidden in the Loures Library, and promptly took for herself. With
fingers quivering slightly from the cold, she opened the latter, and located an
underlined passage near the end.

_" None with the spark of Danaan could reach this height of Kadath without
going mad."_

A self-fulfilling prophecy, she thought to herself sardonically. Who else but
one filled with madness would ever come to a place like this?

Nevertheless, Mae had taken the warnings in the Book of the Black Cow
seriously - even the greatest of the Aosdans had been twisted by the darkness
in Kadath - and had availed herself of the magickal defences offered by her
god, Gramail. It was whispered quietly in priestly circles that Gramail himself
had once been an ancient Aosdan who had failed to act as his fellows fell under
the influence of darkness. Maerista was determined not to make the same
mistake. She would end this Anaman Pact before it had even begun. Clutching her
prayer necklace, she ran its smooth surface between her fingers and, praying
for protection, hoped that her god approved.

Placing the writings back in her pack, the priestess moved off again, pulling
her cloak ever more tightly around herself. How different she felt now from
that young girl who had arrived so full of life and enthusiasm in Mileth almost
exactly three Deochs ago. Where now was the Maerista who had argued so
fervently with Etienne that rules and laws were unnecessary in Community - that
compassion, honesty and openness were the answers to evil, not ever harsher
punishments? What had happened to the Maerista who encouraged and supported
those around her, rather than politicking against and gossiping about those
Aislings she or her friends happened to dislike? Mae grimaced as the
realisation of how far she had fallen gripped her once more with icy fingers.
Once she had been able to see and appreciate the good in people, no matter what
their flaws. But now, all she could see was her own pain - her own sense of
failure and despair.

"I wonder if this is how Danaan felt when she sacrificed herself for us," she
muttered aloud.

If the hills knew the answer to that, they kept their own counsel.

A couple of hours passed, but Mae's progress towards the dark places hardly
faltered. A distant murmuring sound that had seemed to be coming from all
around her, finally began to coalesce into perceptible voices.

_" Why are you coming?" _they whispered. _" You are a great Aisling, and loved
by many. Use your power and influence to change things to be as you want them!
Return to Mileth and take your rightful place as burgess of that town!"_

Maerista shook her head, seemingly disagreeing and trying to remove the voices
from her mind simultaneously. "Power corrupts me," she said to the freezing
air. "I lost touch with my dream and became a slave to petty rules."

_" That dream is over, Lady Maerista. You tried to create a sense of family
among those you loved. But you failed. You tried everything you could think of
to show them your dream, but they didn't see it did they? They are blind, Mae,
blind. Blinded by Danaan's light in their eyes."_

"No!"

_" Yes, child. We can see you are beginning to understand. That abominable
spark in you grows dim. Soon you too shall see clearly."_

Maerista stiffened at the reference to Rookerin's words, spoken, according to
his book, as he had reformed the Pact of Anaman. "You cannot corrupt me!" she
almost spat. "I come to give my life to end yours! This will be my penance for
the wrongs I've done."

Suddenly laughter rang out from every direction. _" Wonderful! Your arrogance
and egotism is greater than could ever have been hoped! So you consider
yourself worthy? Then come, come by all means!"_

Mae's shoulders sagged as she realised that the motives she had thought of as
the purest of all - the very things that had driven her here in the first
place - were derived only from her stupid pride. Even lost in her greatest
sense of failure and despair, her pride still ruled her. But what else was
left? To return to Mileth and beg forgiveness? To go crawling back in defeat
after having left with such haughty melodrama? No, better to die a martyr than
face that.

And somewhere ahead in the darkness, a voice howled in victory.

## The Mountain that Maddens, Kadath

_Sometimes we do things for reasons we do not know. Is it fate that drives us?
Or does love send us even as far as the end of existence after those we love?_

Morrigan dashed thought the quickly thinning forest toward the foot of a rocky
mountain. 'How do I get myself into these messes,' she thought to herself as
she ran toward a low cliffside, only about 16 hands high. "Oh... damn..."
Morrigan mumbled as she neared the ridge. "Here we go". Morrigan quickly
started scampering up the side of the slope.

From the woods came a howl. Out of the trees came two dark wolves - they were
like shadows, dark yet you could almost see though them. They rushed thought
the the underbrush, and quickly to the cliff wall. They leapt up almost biting
Morrigan's foot off as she pulled herself over the top of the ridge. The wolves
could not climb up the side of the cliff, and growled as they tried to jump up
to the top of the cliff wall.

Morrigan caught her breath then stood up and looked back at her pursuers.
"Can't get me now, you stupid little wolves!" she said sticking her tongue out
at them. Suddenly a bolt of lighting struck the ground near her, and Morrigan
ran like a scared rabbit up the side of the mountain.

"Maerista!" Morrigan yelled as she tried to climb the side of the mountain
after her friend. "Maerista why? Come back, let's both go back to Mileth!"

Maerista kept climbing. They were on the Foot of Kadath, climbing slowly to its
peak. The wind was strong now.

"Come on! Please listen!" Morrigan yelled so she could be heard over the wind.

Maerista stopped and looked back, a sudden look of intense panic on her face.
"Morrigan! How did you find me? Go back while you still can! There is no need
for both of us to die!"

Morrigan went on climbing while figuring that she could drag Maerista back if
she had to. "Just stay there!" Morrigan yelled over the wind. Sometimes Mae
almost seemed within arms reach, but then the mists would swirl between them,
and when they cleared, she would be further away again.

Darkness fell unnaturally swiftly. Morrigan could feel the cold of night biting
at her exposed skin. It started to snow. Morrigan could see the snowflakes,
like little designs that flew thought the air. She counted them as she climbed.
One, Two, Three, Four. Each one not like the last. Twenty, Twenty-one,
Twenty-two. _Why am counting these?_ she wondered. _Hey snow isn't white, it
makes a rainbow, but then... where am I... what is that up ahead?_

# To See is to Despair

The voices had fallen silent now, as Maerista continued her steady climb,
leaning heavily on her staff. She initially felt relief, but in many ways the
quiet was more disturbing. Mae could feel their presence, watching her,
choosing to leave her alone with her despair while she followed the inevitable
course of her fate. There was no sound of Morrigan from behind now either. Mae
knew that her friend would not give up - the bond between them was too strong.
And so she quickened her pace, determined to give herself the time to do what
must be done, before Morri could arrive and ... complicate everything. From the
corner of her eye, Maerista noticed a thick, freezing mist rising up from the
ground behind her. "I see you want to keep this between just you and I too,"
she muttered under her breath.

Without warning, the slope levelled off and the priestess staggered to keep her
balance as she found herself standing at the edge of a stunningly beautiful
plateau of sheet ice. Every conceivable pattern seemed to shift chaotically
within its ordered surface. Ahead, the hills rose still further into the sky,
but into the base of this nearest cliff-face an entrance had been hewn from the
rocks and adorned with pillars, after the style of the temples of the gods of
Temuair.

Pushing her hair away from her face, Maerista moved carefully towards the
temple's gaping maw. She held her staff before her in a two-handed grip, more
as a comfort than anything else. Was she moving towards the temple, or was it
moving towards her? It was so difficult to tell. In a matter of moments, Mae
found herself standing on the lowest temple step, staring up into darkness.
"Not just the absence of light," she said out loud, as if to confirm the true
horror of the vision to herself, "but darkness in pure form. I guess I've found
what I was looking for." An ache of fear gripped her stomach. Climbing the
steps, Maerista passed over the threshold and promptly vanished from view.

_" Welcome,"_ said a voice. A single voice. Melodious and pure.

Maerista stood perfectly still, trying to judge the location of the voice in
the darkness. After a few moments she realised she had been holding her breath,
and consciously let it out. "Show yourself," she said, her fear betraying
itself through the inevitable quiver in her voice.

_" As you wish, my Lady."_

The darkness swam before Maerista's eyes, and a man-shape appeared - a dark
knight \- formed from the darkness, yet still somehow a part of it. _" I am the
one you seek," _it said.

"Are you the one called Anaman?"

_" I am. And I am the one who can bring you peace."_

Maerista tried to focus on the form in front of her, but could not. "How?" she
uttered, softly.

The presence seemed to grow closer, almost eagerly. _" The spark of Danaan
within you is dim, but it lives nontheless. Guilt is the control She places on
all her children. It limits you, Maerista. You cannot be free to be who you
truly are while you are bound by it." _The dark knight came closer, almost
whispering now. _" You know you are worthy - I can feel it. I can set you free,
Mae. Freedom from guilt. The freedom to choose your own destiny!"_

Mae stared blankly into the darkness for a moment. Then suddenly she spoke.
"Freedom from having to care what others think of me?" Her eyes darted to the
dark figure, a momentary pleading look crossing her face.

_" Yes." _hissed the darkness. _" Oh yes..."_

"What must I do?"

_" Oh Maerista, my dear girl, I thought you would never ask!" _Anaman's
features suddenly became clear enough for Maerista to make out a smile. _ "Give
me your hand," _it commanded. _" Do not resist me."_

Maerista released her grip on her staff, noticing for the first time just how
tightly she had been grasping it. She held out her arm to the knight before
her. Anaman grasped it and immediately a brilliant light burst into existence
from deep within Maerista's chest, causing her to gasp involuntarily, her back
arching slightly.

_" Do not be afraid, Mae. Soon the pain will be over."_

The burning glow of light began to move gradually from Maerista's chest across
to her shoulder, and then began to creep down her arm to where the dark knight
gripped her. Waves of agony passed through the priestess's body, making it
tremble like a tree in a storm. The inside of the temple came into sharp focus
as Danaan's light cast aside the darkness one last time...

"Maerista! No!"

Into the blinding light stumbled Morrigan, exhausted but looking as determined
as ever. "I will not let you do this!"

The dark knight took only a moment to re-evaluate the situation. With its free
hand it made a gesture in the air. Two lines and a swirl to bind them. There
was a sharp crack of air being displaced, and instantly between Anaman and
Morrigan stood two Succubi. Tall, dark, beautiful, magnificent.

Deadly.

One of the Succubi reached out and lifted Morrigan clean off the ground, then
threw her to one side. Morrigan collapsed in a heap on the floor and lay still.

"Morri!" yelled Maerista, breaking free from the trance into which she had
fallen. The dark knight seemed momentarily distracted by Maerista's shout.
Sensing a weakness, the priestess gathered her remaining strength, and poured
it into the light before her, pushing it towards the core of the dark knight's
being. "By all the gods of Temuair I'll not let you harm her!"

Anaman's eyes widened. _" No! Don't be such a fool!"_

Maerista concentrated harder, trying to envelop the darkness with the light.
Trying to crush it out of existence. At first it looked like she might almost
succeed, but then the light began to wane. The look of pain on Mae's face was
mirrored only by the glee on the soulless visage of the dark figure still
grasping her arm. Then, suddenly, the light vanished, and Maerista was thrown
back across the temple - lost in the darkness.

Anaman's eyes shone brilliant red, like rubies.

## With Black Wings

_" Kill the one with green hair, she has gone mad and is no use to us,"_ the
dark knight said, his red eyes glowing when he spoke.

The two Succubi approached where Morrigan lay, in the center of some sort of
pentagram. One entered the circle and knelt down near Morrigan. Morrigan
herself was drawing a circle in the ground with her finger mumbling one word
over and over - "Darkness".

"You want us to kill her, my Lord?" the Succubus said as she got up.

The dark knight turned to her angrily and snapped _" Didn't I just say that?"
_his eyes now glowing like fire.

"I would," responded the Succubus, "but there is one problem, my Lord. Our
kind has a rule about killing..."

_" What do you mean?" _Anaman yelled in rage.

"I mean, my Lord," the Succubus went on, "we never kill one of our own blood."

_" Do you mean to tell me that that thing is one of you?"_

"Not exactly, my Lord, but to kill her would bring an about an end to us all.
You see, almost 800 winters ago a contract was made with a young wizard. I
believe you are familiar with it - the Contract of Eud," The Succubus said.

_" That foolish mistake you made 800 years ago... You mean to tell me she is
Ree? How truly pitiful," _the Dark Knight added, almost laughing.

"She isn't Ree, my Lord. You're welcome to kill her yourself though..." And
with that the Succubi left the shrine, stepping out into the cold night air.

"There are 357 dents in the area that I circle..." Morrigan muttered, "but only
dark eyes see red things that are blue." She rolled over on her back and sat
cross-legged.

Anaman turned to face Maerista, who had fallen to the cold stone floor of the
temple. _" You...." _he growled _" You're next. But don't worry, I'll give you
the added bonus of watching your friend die as well." _You could almost see the
smile of glee as the dark knight started walk towards Morrigan.

"No!" Maerista called out, weakly. "Please, just leave her be! You already have
me, what more could you want?!".

Morrigan slowly stood up. "Mae? where?" she said, sounding asleep, stumbling
toward Maerista and the dark knight.

Anaman drew his sword, a fine dark blade, and bought it down on Morrigan,
hitting her in the stomach. There was a scream of pain. The sword lay deep in
the right side of Morrigan just above the hips. He raised his sword to strike
again and Morrigan fell to her knees. Then he struck, the blade passing though
her shoulder and hitting her heart. She hit the ground on her side, and
Maerista saw the blue glow form her eyes flicker and vanish.

_" And now you," _the dark one growled at Maerista as he started to approach
her. She stood uncertainly, and started backing up, further, further, until she
was against the wall. She could hear her heart beating. But wait! That was not
her heart - it was beating too slowly and much to loud!

Boom boom the beating went. The dark knight stopped. Boom boom the beating
went. He slowly turned. Boom boom, again, again, like a clock. He looked at
Morrigan. _" How odd" _he thought aloud. Boom Boom, it got faster and louder.
He walked slowly toward Morrigan. The beating was all you could hear. He was
all but five paces away from her when the beating sound stopped suddenly. He
looked at Morrigan's face - stared at it, his sword ready. Suddenly her eyes
opened, the once soft blue friendly eyes had been replaced by a blood red glow
that seemed to be only a weak projection of the anger that was inside. She got
up slowly, as her wounds gradually sealed themselves. Her hair slowly turned a
blue, then a purple. Small bones stuck out of her back. Like fingers they grew
to be small wings - the bones growing in size as flesh seemed to grow around
them. Anaman struck at her with his sword, but she grabbed his blade and in an
instant she had her hand around his neck, his metal armor bent under her grip.

"No..." Morrigan said. "No, that's what you want, for if I kill you, I will
only be one of you..." Morrigan held the dark knight off his feet.

_" Go ahead," _he choked. _" It's in you, it's your blood, your Fate." _

Morrigan simply responded "Fate? there is no such thing for an Aisling," and
tossed him aside, deep into the shadows, as if he was merely a doll. She walked
over to Maerista who stood frozen in fear and shock, and took her in her arms,
embracing, a kiss. "Wasn't that always your dream? To be this close to one?"
Maerista said nothing. Morrigan didn't need a response. She picked Mae up
gently, and walked out of the temple. Launching herself into the air, she flew
south, not really knowing where she was headed.

## Full Circle

When Maerista awoke, she was surrounded by five great oaks. She recognized this
place instantly, so close to Suomi Village. These were the oak trees that she
used to visit often. But where was Morrigan? Maerista sat up and looked around.
Toirísa and Elisabeth were there near a fire, watching over her.

"Maerista, you're awake," Toirísa said, sounding relieved. "You've been out for
days. We would have moved you but Morrigan wouldn't let us."

Elisabeth said nothing but simply faced Maerista and smiled - it was her way.

"Morrigan!" Maerista said, sitting up. "Where is she?" Elisabeth pointed up to
one of the trees. In the darkness of night, Maerista could see two soft blue
glows. "Morrigan, is that..." Maerista started but was quickly interrupted by
Morrigan who snapped, "Yeah it's me! Now stay away lest I end up hurting some
one I care for!"

There was a moment of silence. "Morrigan..." Maerista said in a calming voice.
"Why do you say that?"

Morrigan did not answer, but stayed hiding up in the tree. She threw a book at
Maerista's feet. It was the metal-covered one that had belonged to her mother.
"Read the last page," Morrigan muttered. "Then perhaps you'll understand... all
of you will then..."

Maerista picked up the book, walked over to the fire and sat next to Toirísa
and Elisabeth. "How long has she been like this?" she asked the two, knowing
however that she would only get a answer from one.

"Ever since she went to get us and brought us here to you," Toirísa said, "she
climbed that tree and refused to come down. And she threatened to kill herself
if we moved you."

Maerista opened the unlocked book and turned to the last page, "Shall I read?"
she asked. Toirísa and Elisabeth both nodded and so Maerista read the words
from the page.

_Dear Morrigan,_

_This will be my final message, and now I shall explain it all. My Contract
with the Dubhaimid, my selling of my freedom, my mistake. I assisted in the
creation of two Half Dubhaimid as you could call them. What I did I did to live
with the power of a god. I made you by Contract, that's what I did, just like
the last, yeah. How? A baby, yes a baby, I murdered, new born. Drained of blood
like cattle, heart removed, replaced with the cold dark heart of a Succubus,
yes, your blood, that be Dubhaimid too, not all, no no no, you have my blood,
for you see you are my child, born form me, to die, only to die, you took some
of my blood, that would make you free, free my dear, free...._

"She went mad" Morrigan muttered weakly. She had climbed down from the tree,
her Mystic Gown torn and cut. She had two large scars where she had been
attacked by the dark knight's blade, and she seemed as pale as a ghost. "Mom...
she went mad."

The three looked at Morrigan, "Morrigan are you ok?" Toirísa asked. Morrigan
didn't answer.

"Morrigan?" Maerista said. "Are you there?" Morrigan said nothing, but suddenly
keeled over. Suddenly it occurred to Mae, how much blood had Morrigan lost? How
did she manage to stay alive all this time? She grabbed Morrigan's back pack,
and emptied it, grabbing the knife that Morrigan always kept with her.
Carefully, using a skill she had learned so long ago, but hardly used, she
started to transfer her own blood into Morrigan, mingling their blood together.
The minutes seemed to pass like hours as they watched and hoped.

Finally, after what felt like days, Morrigan at last opened her eyes. "Why?"
she said weakly "Why did you save my life?"

Maerista looked into the soft glow of Morrigan's eyes, "I told you once I
would die for you, and that I would support you always, whoever you are and
whatever you choose to do. Didn't you know that I love you?"

Morrigan smiled. She knew she did not have to answer. Nothing could take away
this moment, nothing at all.

## Epilogue

There was a loud knock at the door. Maerista smoothed out the parchment she was
working on and looked up. "Come in," she called. The door groaned wearily and
Morrigan slipped through, closing the door behind herself and leaning back
against it with a huge sigh.

"It happened again, Mae."

"Did anyone see?"

"No, I don't think so. But the truth is going to come out sooner or later.
It's hard to hide in a city of Aislings when I look like a Succubus." She
sighed again. "When I _am_ a Succubus," she corrected herself.

Mae went over to her friend and gave her a hug, kissing her gently. "Don't
worry, we'll think of something." She smiled suddenly. "I've been catching up
with the news. Did you know that Burgess Dartanian has passed a law making
attacking 'summoned creatures' illegal unless they're hostile?"

Morrigan pouted dramatically. "Last I checked I'm not a summoned creature!"

"Yes, but the people of Mileth don't know that!"

"Well, that's the whole problem isn't it!"

Mae smiled wryly. "Perhaps we could find a priest of Sgrios to summon you?"

"Don't you dare!" laughed Morrigan, poking Maerista with her Holy Hermes.
Turning to leave once more she added, "Don't stay up writing too late!"

"I won't, I promise," Mae smiled. Shutting the door quietly behind her friend,
she sat down once more and looked down at the parchment. After a few moments
she began to write again:

_" To be forgiven and accepted is to be freed from guilt. This is the way of
Danaan's compassionate light..."_

_Morrigan and Maerista_
_Deoch 8, Winter_

***

```
Librarian Notes

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Morrigan-Maerista_Shadow.html .
```
