# Tale of a Fallen Warrior

_By Pumpkins of **Dark Ages**_

It all began when I was taking a trip into the Mileth crypts. This is a usual
hunting ground for so many aislings, both young and old. Morbid as it may seem,
victories come out of this over-embellished tomb more than losses, at least
from an aisling point of view. As I entered through the crypt doors and walked
down through its winding, cold corridors, I never once thought anything seemed
out of place. I took a few twists and turns and started to explore some areas
that I had never been to, the increased presence of more undisturbed dust and
no living cameos for quite some time seemed to say that this was an older area
of the Mileth crypt, a place no one really ventured to anymore. At first I just
about missed it all together, then I stopped dead in my tracks as something
flashed through my mind, which as just now catching up with my eyes. I turned
and looked into the shadowy corners of the crypts floor, what I saw filled my
heart with sorrow and revulsion. I crept closer and what I originally thought
was a skeleton of some long deceased mouse came clearly into view and
consciousness as to what it really was, the finger bones of a human form. I
walked deeper into the shadows and let my eyes adjust to the lack of light,
slowly the forms became more apparent; a large chunk of the wall was concealing
a body. I pushed the large rock out of the way, which produced a small
avalanche of dusty rubble. As the dust settled the body came into view, he must
have been an aisling, the poor fellow. He wore a Jupe with the heraldry of the
kingdom of Loures embroidered upon it's sash, it's dark style of dye providing
some amount of camouflage in the crypts darkness, it's no wonder I had
initially missed his corpse. A broad sword lay slightly revealed from it's
sheath, looking as though it was never truly drawn in defense, as if the man
had never had a chance to defend himself, large spots of dried rusty blood
around the body seemed to give forth the same testimony. A leather shield was
still in his bony grasp on the opposite side of his body, it's wooden backing
splintered through, one of the iron bolts snapped in two leaving a few layers
of some of the tough leather padding hanging off the broken defensive
instrument. I clutched my Fiosachd prayer necklace tightly in my hands and
whispered a prayer for the fallen warrior, subconsciously as much for myself as
well, wishing that I never meet his same fate. Not really sure what do to next,
I searched his body, finding one of his larger packs I riffled through it and
found a relatively new leather journal, the front of the book covered in dried
ink from an ink well that had been shattered inside of his pack, coating much
of the pack's contents with it's blackness, which was now well dried and
flaking off. I pulled out the journal, and sat down on the crypt floor, resting
my back up against a sarcophagus. With this thought in mind, I made a mental
note to try and respect the dead a little more, however my excitement overcame
me, I quickly lost all worries of my newfound resolution and began to read the
entries of the deceased warrior.

_I now begin this journal, summer in the year of Deoch the tenth. I am
Perclesius of Loures, a warrior trained in short by the aisling Nimbt of Piet.
I feel blessed to be able to write down my thoughts in this book, thankfully I
was taught by a most gentle soul to be literate, learning in the Loures
library as a child._

My eyes are slowly growing heavier and a comforting exhaustion has over taken
me now as I look up from this book time and again, looking outside my room's
window up into the night sky. I stare at the twinkling stars of those azure
heavens and I am reminded of grandfathers story, of how the stars come to be.
He always seemed to think they were legacies of famous aislings, telling of
their great deeds long after their time had taken their names from the minds
and voices of modern day life.

My body aches from head to toe, Nimbt truly gave me quite a work out today. I
meet Nimbt about a month and a half ago, just as I was reborn as an aisling. He
has been my guide, and my friend, teaching me what I have needed to know to
live the life of a warrior. Shortly upon meeting me he walked me through a
warrior's initiation rite, and upon completing it he gave me a precious gift of
two magical rings. Nimbt said these rings would help to protect me, and
increase my skill in battle, as I slide them on to my fingers I felt more
vitality flow their my veins. I am truly blessed to have such a giving mentor.

I had lived the life of a simple farmer outside of Loures's proud castle
grounds, until for some reason still not known to me, mighty Ceannlaidir chose
me to be reborn as an aisling. He came to me in a dream, while I lay upon a
simple straw mattress after a long day's toil. He said that he admired my hard
work and determination, and that my muscles almost rivaled that of the oxen I
kept. He told me I was to be one of the chosen few, and I awoke the next
morning in Mileth. Since that fateful morning everything has seemed different.
Even better than before, one might dare to say. The lights of the world seem
brighter, the food tastes stronger, the air breathes new life into me, a sort
of life only a mundane can hope to dream of. I am better now than I ever have
been, in every way. Thank you for choosing me Ceannlaidir, I truly appreciate
every moment of my aisling existence. I'm not quite sure I could describe the
intricacies of a mundane VS. aisling existence, I am happy in the knowledge
that I live a much better life since my rebirth, since Ceannlaidir chose me.
The euphoric oppression of sleepiness is now overtaking me much too quickly for
me to get out the thoughts I want to, I will have to pick this up later.

Nimbt took me to the crypts in Mileth this afternoon. Though I thought it a
rather odd place for a warrior to train and become great in skill, Nimbt
reassured me that this was a starting place for many a great aisling. He
certainly was right about this place being a challenge where a young aisling
might hone their skills; the some of the spiders in that place are as big as
me! Rats feast upon discarded bits of food, and as unappealing as that may
sound, it is even worse that Nimbt picked some up, excusing his behavior as he
put the rotten food in his pack, saying he had a friend in Mileth named Cian
who worked with such things. I do not know why he would lower himself to such a
disgusting task as bringing rotten food to a friend, nor do I really want to
know his motivations'either way I trust in his soundness of mind, besides that,
he is a rather accomplished warrior, I do not question any of my dear mentor's
actions- for he has given me far to much to ever deserve such a betrayal.
Tomorrow we venture deeper into the catacombs, I am nervous, but Nimbt and my
strong muscles reassure me'let my neither faith nor strength waver oh great
Ceannlaidir.

So tired, cannot really spend much time writing this eve. The beats of those
cold, dusty tombs grow bigger and fiercer the further you descend. Nimbt says
my skills are improving at a fast pace, however in all honesty to myself I
believe that I would not have gotten this far if it were not for the doting
mentor I posses, luckily enough.

Oh what a horrid day. The terror and pain that so freely runs in my veins keeps
me awake this late into the evening when even all of the most diligent of night
goers has long retired. As a test of my skills progress Nimbt sent me into the
crypts alone this day. As I started out I felt quite confident in my abilities,
I lacked fear. I started off slow, working into a more battle worn frame of
mind, starting off on the upper levels of Mileth tomb. Within a short amount of
time I felt warmed up, I lacked wounds and I knew I could go further, that I
should go further, push myself that much more towards greatness. I pressed on
to the third floor of the crypts, a place I was familiar with but had never
been to alone. With great effort I sent three spiders to feed the ever-hungry
maw of Sgrios. As I stood panting from the exercise, waiting for my breath to
come back to me more freely, I felt a slight wind whip around my feet. I sensed
something's presence, but not with the common senses of sight and hearing one
might so easily explain. Nimbt calls this my warrior's instinct, whatever it
is, it sent a tingling sensation up my spine and rush of energy throughout my
body. I jumped forward and spun, my saber striking into a large monster
centipede so common to this area of the crypts. With a large wound in it's side
slightly hindering the creature, but with grim determination, it pursued me
still. I stepped back and lunged my small circular shield in front of my body
just in time, the centipede's fangs scrapping off of the metal bolting. I
finished the creature off with another swift strike to its side, however
victory was far from close. As my lethal blow fell upon this monstrous
centipede, something that felt of a leather blanket beat against the side of my
head, and pain rushed into my shoulders as I felt fangs slip deep into my
flesh. I cried out in pain and swatted blindly at my attacker. With a few short
sprints away, I turned and saw a giant black bat, issuing an enraged screech
and closing in fast upon me. I set my legs steady and raised my shield, I kept
a firm grasp upon my saber and awaited the beasts charge. Just as the bat
closed in on me, I felt another stab of pain in my lower left leg. I stumbled
into a summersault and tried to limp away from the unseen attacker. It all
happened so quickly and yet I could describe these events in perfect detail, it
was as if time stood still for a moment. The padding on my greaves was torn and
blood issued forth. The aforementioned phantom attacker was now in view,
another monstrous centipede, closing in on my left flank as the bat came in
upon my right. Fear started to creep into my soul as I readied myself for the
ensuing fight, one I was sure I would become the victor of. Just as I braced
myself and set to swing a blow to the now dangerously close centipede, I heard
the bat give out an ear shattering screech, and suddenly I was set aflame. My
clothing singed barely, buy all of my flesh seemed alight all at once with
seething fire that tore into my skin and melted my hair. I felt a sharp
constricting pain on my hands, one on each of my ring fingers, exactly where my
mentor's gifts of two protective rings were placed. The pain was sudden, then I
heard a snap, and a sound of glass shattering, and within the next instant, my
rings were gone. The fire seemed to burn into my bowels and then with a sudden
release, the pain was gone. I found myself in a state which I had never known,
this particular state offered the curious wonder of my aisling birth, but these
feelings of bewilderment quickly faded, overwhelmed by ensuing fear as I looked
up into the visage of Sgrios himself. The ghastly abomination of divinity
towered over me, or what I assumed was my body. I now felt weightless; in fact
all I did seem to feel was this floating sensation, a sense of nothingness. My
emotions were hardly bereft of me as my physical state was, this was very clear
as the smell of rotten meat washed over me, and the lord of death and
destruction leaned into my face. A strange guttural language ushered forth from
the deity's broken grin, and I lay paralyzed in fear. No thoughts came to me
and yet a million thoughts came to me. I'm not certain if I could ever explain
such a contradiction but this episode of my life is something that cannot
easily be explained, only experienced. A certain look of pity almost shined in
the god's eyes, and in it's own way of speech it said something to me, that
terrible, resounding sound that came from off of it's jagged teeth and pierced
into my brain. Sgrios told me that I served him well, that many deaths had been
collected for him, and that I truly served him, not Ceanlaidir. Despite my
deep-seated faith I dared not argue, all I could do was listen, in anxious
paralysis. He swore to give me a second chance, a last chance to bring him
better sacrifices, or I would not stay my life as an aisling for long. Also on
the condition that I must call for him in times of need, and pray my victories
in his name- for it was he that I truly served, or so this evil being seemed to
think. He reached out to me and with one of his long, sharp talons that served
as fingers, he placed his mark upon me. A disgustingly long and twisted scar
torn into my flesh, and marked me for all time, marking our pact which was far
from mutual in agreement, nor negotiable. With another breath of his odd
language I found myself once again in the crypt. Nimbt was just slashing
through the bat's innards, the centipede lay upon the floor in it's death
throes. Nimbt looked at me with compassion, and with a patient manner he seemed
to nod to the ground next to me. My clothes and personal possessions lay
stacked upon the ground next to me, fallen into a neat pile, after having been
ripped off of my earthly body. Though the sun peers through the inn's shutters,
I still sit here in my room, sleep will not come to me so easily after this
atrocious experience. My hands shake now and I find it hard to write anymore,
as weary as I am I still feel as if I need a release of sorts. I think I will
walk out along the grassy fields of Mileth, and take in the morning sun, try to
forget the promise Sgrios made to me...try to forget what I must do in order to
live this blessed aisling existence.

I have not had time to write in my journal, as I have been very busy learning
the ways of a good soldier. Nimbt has increased the rigor of my training as of
late, saying that it will help me to be in prime shape, and sharp of mind. He
told me some sad news; he will be leaving me for a while to take care of some
sort of business with some people in Undine. Undine, the dog of Loures. Our
proud lineage crushed their backbones long ago, and now those contemptible
people slave. They should not speak of resistance as is rumored in the taverns,
they should be happy that Lord Bruce keeps such a loose leash upon the folk of
Undine. Agh, my mind is now clouded with anger, I cannot bear to write'the
tavern and women call to me, lusting me as I do them, goodnight journal.

Nimbt has left me. I saw him to the port city of Abel, and gave him a firm
handshake before he stepped upon his Undine bound vessel. A great feeling of
sadness has over taken me. He will return and see me from time to time, though
I know things will never be the same between us. He says it is the way things
must be and accepts it. He would not allow me to come with him, saying I had it
much better here. He told me to train and make his name proud, while on the
road to making my own name and fortune. My thoughts betray me though, I can't
help but think his odd behavior is motivated by some secret dealings he has
with hidden groups of rebel in Undine. Still, he is a great friend and has done
much for me; I will miss him and honor his memory until we meet again.

This day has seen me take new ventures. Desiring a change of scenery from the
death filled catacombs under Mileth, I struck forth into a large area of
woodlands, accompanied by a priest I met along the way. The priest would not
say of which faith he belonged, in fact, he did not say much at all. He did not
seem one to go about these parts alone and had admitted that he had become
separated from his hunting party. Though this nameless man was not one to
converse much, his healing prayers aided me on the field of battle this day. As
we tromped through the trees and tall grass we came upon a wolf, or more
likely, the wolf came upon us. It all happened so quickly; I lunged at the wolf
with all my might, my saber tearing through the wind and into his side. I
dodged and rolled out of the beast's way, just barely missing his crimson
fangs. Using a tactic Nimbt taught me, one he has dubbed "clobber", I finally
took down the beast. Though my armor was ragged and bloodstained, I felt no
injuries when the heat of those furious moments had passed. For the rest of the
day the kindly priest kept a sly smile upon his thin lips, I guess he was a bit
of a luck charm, however I could not stand his brooding silence. We parted ways
at the end of the day and bid one another more great and favorable hunts, it's
a good thing for him I came along'he may have been dead. I feel so confident in
my abilities, tomorrow I will return to the crypts. Nimbt warned me not to
venture very far down into those tombs, but he has been gone, and now I am
stronger'I know I will not fail, I am much too powerful now.

Oh Ceannlaidir please hold me dear in your heart once again. I have erred in my
pride and estimation of my abilities. This tomb's narrow corridors are so
unfamiliar and fear resides deep within the bowels of my very soul. My judgment
was clouded with a haughty sense of power, I have forsaken my mentors teaching
and used Ceannlaidir's name in blasphemous pride. The foul tasting brown
potions that kindly priest gave me yesterday to tend to wounds are now gone.
The air is cold and choking with dust, the corridors are so narrow, my god I
feel as if the world is coming down to crush me. Odd sounds resound through
this dark labyrinth of resting souls. Perhaps it is the dead, which I have
disturbed, and they now wish to claim me. These sounds I mention, they are
unlike any which I have ever heard before. The voices of aisling hunting
parties grew distant long ago, and now I only hear the screech of some horrid
monster from time to time. My heart beats so fast and my very blood chills when
I hear this noise. I think my breath has frozen in my chest, and every time I
almost begin to relax, I hear this noise again. I know the beast is very near,
waiting for me to grow weary. I do not know where to go, and somehow my prayer
necklace slipped from my pack, I know I had it this morning. Oh Ceannlaidir
please hear me, I serve you as a hunter, and please do not let me die alone,
the prey of some unintelligent monster.

The air is so still now; the only sound is my breath. I am gathering my things,
I will at least wander about and look for something familiar again. The beast
must be resting for now, I have not heard it for sometime, maybe he ha
forgotten me. With luck I may slip through this dark place and see the light of
day again.

_The journal ends here. As I rolled young Perclesius's remains over, I saw some
tell tale signs of a giant scorpion, the tip of its stinger imbedded within
the warrior's armor, his broken ribs falling out. I emptied much of his larger
pack and placed his remains within. I traveled to Perclesius's hometown and
was able to find his family. A tear filled funeral followed the next day.
Though grief worn straight through the family's hearts, they showed me a very
kind respect for returning their dearly beloved. I stayed with the family for
two nights and helped as much as I could with the funeral's preparation.
Before I left I visited young Perclesius's grave once more. I spoke to my
roguish lord Fiosachd, and prayed for the comfort of this brave warrior, for
him to find rest and peace within death. I prayed that he someone escaped the
treacherous bullying of the god Sgrios One of Ceannlaidir's proud has fallen,
and simply because he did not choose to beware the dangers of Temuair, those
shown to the aisling warrior. Though I did not know him, I have read
Perclesius's journal, and I have spent time with his family. It seems he was a
noble soul, passionate in his ideals and skilled as a warrior. His failure to
be more humane, and to heed the potential risks of battle lead to what seemed
a dishonorable death. I hope to keep this in my heart as a lesson, one I shall
teach to all my students- beware your pride, let it not be your downfall.
Advance surely, but with the smarts Luathas has imbued all aislings with. As I
looked down upon the grave, decorated with freshly picked flowers weaved into
wreaths, his proud name etched upon the headstone, I almost feel reassured
that Perclesius's last few written thoughts gained him a certain sense of
salvation, and that he now rests peaceably, honored in hy-brasyl by his most
noble deity Ceannlaidir. Find your peace proud warrior, and let your judgment
be a lesson to those who come next. I wipe away a tear and end this portion of
my own journal, happy to be alive, blessed with my god's fortune._


***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```
