# Two Minds, One Love

_by SilverFox and Morthus in **Dark Ages**_

(Parts in _italic_ by Morthus)

Riona has a loving heart. The kind Mundane who resides and cares for the Inn in
Mileth square. When I was young I sat on her knee and she would tell me
wonderful tales of magic and lore. Legends and mysteries that were as rare as
what they depicted and described. Legends of brave warriors that would visit
her small abode. Stories of mythical proportions that told of strange and
wonderful gifts that the gods laid in Temuair for those who were quick with wit
as well as brawn.

On one morning, which consisted of one of her delicious meals and her tending
the front of the Inn; I was inquisitive on where I came from and of who brought
me here. I had just finished with my meal, and having given her last necessary
efforts with her duties, Riona sat down, put me on her lap and told me of what
seemed to me as a faery's tale.

This is how it went,

In a kingdom not so far off lived a very wise and noble warrior. In his
journeys he met a young girl who had laid claim, for a short respite, to one of
his favorite grassy knolls which he liked to rest on. This bright aisling had
shaped a bunch of soft scented flowers and lush long blades of grass to put
behind her head as she had her eyes closed and let her feet dangle in the warm
serene brook that flowed by.

Expecting that she was asleep, he turned to sit and rest before leaving. Facing
the young maiden, until she awakened from her slumber. Startled by the
unexpected clanking and metallic noises of his heavy armor she jumped up and
quickly looked to where she heard the noise. Seeing that he had frightened her
so, he asked of her forgiveness and made motion to leave. But before he was
able to get to his feet the young girl approached him and seeing that he was
injured silently dipped a clothe in the water and reached for his scrapes and
bruises to tend to them.

Taken aback by her silent and graceful demeanor, the warrior asked; "Never have
I seen such beauty and grace in such abundance, would you give beauty a name,
that I might praise it to the gods?" She looked into his eyes and pronounced
the most beautiful name that he ever heard. The sparkle in her eyes held him
transfixed and rooted to his spot. His attention broken by the soft breeze
through the grass, he got to his feet and spread his arms wide. And speaking in
a tongue that she had not come to recognize as yet, proclaimed in a loud voice
that made the small animals scamper within the under glades of the bushes.
Suddenly a ring of small fire surrounded the two aislings for a moment and just
as suddenly disappeared.

"But Riona, what was the name of the girl and who was she really?"

Riona smiles and gives me a small hug, "I'm coming to that, my child, do not be
anxious."

In wanting to repay the girl for what she did for him, the warrior inquired of
where she was from, and if he could possibly walk with her until she arrived
safely. She did not say but instead motioned that she would welcome his company
to return to where she was from. Storing his armor and readying himself for the
walk the warrior wondered why she was so silent. Yet with such passion for the
simple beauty of nature and caring without expecting in return.

The warrior knew the countryside by heart, and realized as he and his silent
companion neared a village that she was actually a Mileth citizen. For the
second time since they had met, the young girl spoke again saying; "Now you
know where you can find me." At this, it was her turn to surprise him. She
chanted something she had learned, and disappeared from his presence.

That young maiden became very mature, she was loved by all of the mundanes, and
made many friends here in Mileth. After she and her warrior friend were
married, she told me of a young priestess that would come to stay at my Inn.
She asked if I would keep this young aisling safe when she was hungry and in
need of rest. She still frequented my humble abode and seemed to have much more
words since she had found her love. However, her time here always became
shorter, whisked away by duties in the kingdom, and passionate about learning
new skills.

She has not returned for many moons, but I believe her young warrior has taken
her to a kingdom of his own. There he has given her the best of all she can
wish for.

"And now to your question, my child, that priestess the young maiden had talked
of, that is you!"

Riona brushed my hair from my face and looked into my eyes, waiting for me to
understand.

"Me?", I had asked, "Wow! It's so exciting to know where I came from." She held
my hand and my gaze as I marvelled at my lineage. Then she told me to go
outside, to follow my heart, and learn all I could about whatever path I would
choose.

To this day, I still remember her stories, ones that have inspired me to make a
life of my own here in Temuair. One of my fondest memories is this...

I had found a mentor quite readily, a young eager priest that had great
knowledge and kindness when he spoke. This was to be my first friend in
Temuair. He taught me well, giving me advice and showing me what I needed to
learn the skills I would use as I had chosen the path of a priestess. Many
times he gave of himself to make sure I would come back safely, and to this end
I have always been grateful.

My travels took me from Mileth, to the East Woodlands that are not to far from
the village. My mentor occasionally took me to the far reaches of Suomi to get
new skills, and items needed for furthing my craft. He had many things to
attend to, but always made time for me, giving me help with a single plea, or
showing me how to practice and become more efficient in my skills.

I have always preferred the warm sunshine, and the beauty that the gardens and
woodlands have had to offer, instead of the cold and dark crypt. One day after
I had been hunting with one or two other aislings, I retreated to the safety of
the crossroads of the East Woodslands to rest a moment to regain my strength
and will.

Unfortunately, my hunting partners had other things to attend to at that time,
so I was left to stand alone. I have always enjoyed making new friends, and as
I was standing chatting with some, a young wizard walked up to me and greeted
me. I had met him about two double-moons before and, we had hunted together
quite often in that time. Being able to talk with someone I knew, and enjoyed
their company, we talked for some time. After a while, we decided to hunt, and
asked two warriors to do the same with us. One warrior was a pleasant aisling,
but didn't care much for hunting with others, and the other seemed to have a
dark ominous shadow about him, it was almost eerie. I was intrigued by this one
warrior, but I didn't give the matter much thought and we all set out.

***

_It was a dark cold night as the rain pattered down onto the kingdom of Mileth,
where, in a small house, in a dimly lit room, two anguished aislings tried to
tend to their ill little son. That child, was me, Morthus Krafts, although I
have renounced my family name because of the pain it reminds me of. I had
contracted a terminal disease, and my parents couldn't help me, gods know they
tried._

_They pleaded with Glioca, goddess of love and keeper of life, but their
pleades went unanswered. They pleaded with Deoch to save the potential of my
life, yet nothing stirred. They pleaded with all the gods, even with
Ceannlaidir. And time after time their cries for help were unanswered. So, in
despair, they turned to Sgrios..._

_That same night, two rain drenched aislings, my mother and father, rushed
their son to the house of Sgrios, in a desperate last attempt to save me.
There, they bade the dark master to take their souls, and to spare me from his
clutches. Their wish was granted, and they collapsed there, on the spot, my
mother lovingly cradling me as her breathing slowly crawled to a stop. She died
saying she loved me, and was sorry she had to leave._

_Years later, I awakened from my sleep, as I did every morning. Nothing had
changed my faith in being a cursed soul, bringing anguish to all who became my
friend. Not even my aisling birth had changed my mind, and day in day out I
fought the monsters of the crypt, relishing in the dark, killings things
without, to kill what was within myself. My thoughts wandered over my life's
purpose: hate, anger and destruction. I had two choices, join Ceannlaidir, or
join Sgrios himself, as he had always intended for me to do. Aye, I had a few
friends, the closest being the wizard Rubyarm. But at the time he was no more
to me than a useful tool of destruction, something I could use to kill with
more than by myself. Yet I had no idea that what would happen that day would
change my life forever._

_As I walked through the lush green field of the woodlands near Lover's Glade,
I cursed the beauty of that which surrounded me, for I could never have that
beauty in my life. Pondering my own fate again I staggered around the place, in
search of an item I needed to get another skill of destruction. Then suddenly,
I stumbled upon an Aisling, and as my eyes focussed on this priestess something
snapped inside of me. I froze in my steps, being enchanted by the beauty of
this girl, fascinated by the innocence she seemed to radiate..._

_As we got closer, she bid me good day. Normally I would've shrugged and moved
on but this time I returned the courtesy. She asked if I would like to hunt
with her sometime, and still enchanted, I answered "Aye". That was all that was
said but after that I could not get her out of my mind for an instant. I felt
confused, feeling things I had never felt before. I wondered if maybe it was
love, if maybe I wasn't meant to hate and destroy._

***

I found out that I had the least of all the insights in this small group, but
everyone seemed to enjoy the time, and we all learned from the hunt. After the
hunt, the young wizard gave me an oath to protect and provide for any and all
of my needs, asking if I would accept it. I was in shock and didn't know what
to think. My mind was reeling, diving, thinking "Is this my love I am to
marry?" My answer to the young wizard was, "Yes." I spent a great deal of time
getting to know this wonderful aisling that had asked of my hand in marriage,
he took me to many villages and we talked in depth of what we each saw in a our
near future.

In the next couple of moons, we all hunted again a number of times. And each
time we did so, the young warrior that had seemed so overshadowed, seemed
different. In his eyes I saw storms rising and falling, pain that seemed to cut
him deep, seemed to be tearing at him once again. Yet in all of it, his voice
was gentle and steady, it was soothing to listen to. I was so intrigued by this
paradox that I found in him, I asked if he would hunt with just me. His answer
came as brief and as paradoxial as his personna. He questioned if I knew of
what his name meant. I replied, "Death?"

He gave me a puzzled look, and I smiled as I knew he must have been thinking,
"Why would this Priestess want to hunt with me then?" I enjoyed his friendship,
even though he seemed a little estranged at times.

As I lay slumbering in the following nights at Riona's Inn, I couldn't help but
think, "Did I make the right decision? Did I say 'yes' too soon?" In the
following days, I spent much time thinking of what I must do to make ready for
my wedding. But all the time I did this, the young warrior was on my mind
aswell. I smiled to myself and wondered why this was, but I had no answer at
that time.

A short time passed, but nothing had changed between the wizard and I. Feelings
had not vaulted higher as I had anticipated, and he gave me less attention each
passing day. Saddened by these things, I once again turned to the young
warrior. We talked for a short time of a wise old wizard in Loures, imprisoned
and yearning for his love, Bella. I asked the warrior if he would complete the
quest to sooth Merlin's broken heart. He agreed, and we set off to complete it.

***

_We met often after that, and talked a lot. After a while I found my mood
changing. Thinking of her made me happy, and think of her I did. Each day I
woke up my thoughts were with her, and when I went to bed in Riona's inn they
were with her. That's when I knew I had to have her in my life._

_My heart was filled with joy when she asked me to help out the old Merlin who
had been jailed in Loures. I had heard of his plight, and knew this might bring
us closer together. Had it been anybody but her to help me get out of the maze
you get sucked into at the bed with no pillow, I would've died. I wandered
around, without food or drink for hours on end. Fatigued and near my wits end
she kept me going by just being there and talking to me. As a friend of her, a
sturdy warrior finally guided me out, I staggered and collapsed on the
ground... Stricken with fatigue and poison, she tended to me, and I could feel
she cared about me._

***

Soon after that, I heard again from the warrior. He asked if I would meet with
him at the benches by the Temple of Choosing. Inquisitively, I agreed to do so,
I bade Riona farewell, and made my way through Mileth. I saw him immediatly,
and greeted him. He seemed anxious, and for some reason had trouble keeping his
hands from trembling. He told me he had a little gift for me, and as he gave it
to me asked me, "Will you marry me?"

My eyes grew wide and I was astonished at what he had asked, I had to keep my
mouth from dropping open in surprise! For a moment I couldn't speak, he asked
if I was alright? I couldn't take my eyes away from the beautiful Jade ring he
had given to me. It was an small, incredible ring with a gem set in it. After a
moment, my mind cleared, and I heard his distant voice again, coming more
clearly with each word he spoke. "Will you marry me?"

***

_After this I pleaded with my mentor to help me get a ring for her, and he gave
me the money to get one. I strolled all the way to Suomi to get it... Thrice,
as the armorer was constantly out of stock. This was something I would have
done only if it was for my own advantage before. I bought the ring and as soon
as my love woke up I bade her come to the benches near the temple of choosing._

_I waited there anxiously, until finally she arrived. Trembling like a leaf I
told her I had bought her a present... And had a question for her. As her
expression became more or less amazed, I took her hand and put on the ring,
asking if she'd marry me._

***

My response to him was, "Would you wait a double-moon for my decision?" I told
him I needed time to think, and he gave me more than what I asked for. I
returned the ring to him, and as my entire body ached from my answer I sadly
turned and ran for the Woodlands, the place that I had loved so much. Hoping to
find comfort there. Now, I gave my decision to marry the wizard much thought,
and truly questioned what we had.

***

_Alas, my joy was lessened as I heard her say, she needed time to think. Thus,
time I gave her. I waited in suspence for a double moon. Then finally I asked
her what her answer was... But she said she needed more time and didn't want me
to wait that long. Not willing to give in, I told her I'd wait anyway, which I
did. But soon after something happened which broke my heart... She told me she
was engaged to the aisling she had loved for a long time now._

_Heart broken and nearly in tears I rushed to the cold darkness of the crypt,
not knowing what to do. I had to purge my mind, and see where my path lay. I
fought and fought, slowly letting the pain purge my mind, to see more clearly._

_I had already given up on ever getting her back when she dissapeared for days
on end. Her husband to be was worried, and as it would later be proven, had
right to be so._

***

At that time, my visits to Temuair were very brief and infrequent, but on my
return I found the wizard and told him I wasn't sure of my decision to marry
him. He semi-reluctantly acknowledged me and went to hunt. His response to me,
hurt me a little, but more solidified the thoughts and feelings I had for the
young warrior.

***

_I woke up again, in my bed at Riona's inn. I wandered outside in the sun
light, cursing the sun for brightening a world while mine was this dark. As I
walked aimlessly down the street of Mileth I found her husband to be. Trying to
be friendly I asked if he had seen her yet, and suddenly his expression became
one of sadness. He told me she had broken up with him. My mind raced and so did
my heart. Did she leave him for me? Did she really love me after all?_

_Time passed slowly as I sat and wait in the tavern, slowly sipping my drink
while now and then warding off the drunken mundane's attempts to start a
conversation. I sat there and waited for her to return. Finally, she did, and
we met outside of Pravat cave. Again I proposed to her, and as I knew she
would, she accepted. The clouds were lifted from my mind, my heart and my soul
and I felt more happy than ever before. I felt confident, with this girl at my
side, I could be anything I wanted to be, and do anything I wanted to do._

***

As all these events surrounded me, I had no emotion or will to hunt. Instead I
spent my time alone near the Pravat Caves, practicing my skills. Suddenly the
young warrior approached me again, seeing him I smiled cordially and asked of
his well being. I didn't want to bring up anything to do with the past moon's
events, but as I guessed he would bring it up, he asked his question again.
This time it was all I had anticipated and wanted. My emotions were high, and I
said an emphatic "Yes!"

***

_After that my life changed in a fast pace, I joined the Gliocan church, and
met many kind and gentle hearted aislings. I no longer strove for hatred and
anger, yet I tried to be noble and helpful._

_I thank Glioca every day for sending this wonderful girl, who is now my wife,
to the woodlands that one day. For me, there is nothing more important than
her, my wife, SilverFox._

***

I felt safety and warmth in his embrace, a turn around from what I had first
seen of this stout, but once troubled warrior. He was and always will be a
pillar of strength for me. He joined the faith to which I belonged, and the
Gliocan fellowship welcomed him in. Glioca has indeed blessed me, in giving me
such an incredible friend, and love. For me there is nothing more important
than he, my husband, Morthus.

_Morthus, Mileth Warrior_  
_and_  
_SilverFox, Mileth Priestess_  


***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```

