# The Taste of the Moon

_by SkyMaiden in **Dark Ages**_

## A Bitter Night

The moon watched over the children of the night, listening to the calls of
worship and longing. Deep within the woods of wolves, was a dark shape, nestled
in the brush, watching the golden moon and the clouds around it. Her eyes
glowed a bright green, greener than the color of cherished emeralds.

A jet black wolf ran along the paths, the pack, their tails up, their ears
alert, in the passion of the hunt. A low growl came from the shadows, the green
eyes narrowing. The figure moved out into a patch of moon light, a pure white
wolf, with beautiful silky fur and large luminous green eyes.

She stared at the moon sadly and a bitter howl carried up into the wind. She
wondered wildly who was doing it, then realized she herself had uttered the
cry. She snapped her jaws shut with a sharp click. Howls echoed back at her,
not her own.

Fear seized her and she let out a defiant snarl, taking off. The cries grew
louder and soon the pack was chasing her. She ran her muscles rippling, her
legs leaping into the air, the freedom of the run that she normally so dearly
loved. Her panic was cutting off the beauty of running for they cut her off
quickly and quickly had her surrounded.

She snarled viciously, her green eyes intense and narrowed, her teeth bared.
They lifted their lips in silent snarls, but made no move to attack.Â  She was
the outcast, the one who they would kill willingly, if the prey ever became
scarce. She heard a smooth low growl behind her and whirled around, hair
bristling. The black leader stood tall over her, his raised head looking down
at her. His golden eyes were hard and showed no mercy. He stared her down and
she glared back. She was going to fight for her life, if she needed too.

She shook her head bewildered as if he told her something with that stare. The
entire pack, all seven of them, except the leader, jumped at her, their snarls
loud. They bit into her flesh and she cried out, her voice ringing into a
violent snarl and she fought back. She slashed at a belly with her claws and
closed her jaws around a throat. They were on her, wildly and she took the
first opportunity and fled. They didn't chase her. Howls came after her,
banishing her. The loudest was the black male. It echoed in her mind, long
afterwards, haunting her.

## Dawn's New Greeting

Dawn signaled Danaan's light across the morning sky. Aslings and mundanes began
to wake up, life stirring, The beggars walked faithfully to their spots,
greeting Aslings humbly with their heads bowed, soft smiles on their faces.

Two immensely built warriors came down the East Wood lands Meeting Area's path
talking loudly, their armor shining golden with the polished hybrasyl gleaming
in the sun. Their swords and shields were out as they jokingly sparred upon one
another. The dark haired one suddenly noticed something lying across the path
leading to the Wolf's Wood. A young rouge lay face down, her golden hair
spilled in the dust, her body nude. They knelt beside her and pulled a rough
cloak around her shoulders, stirring her. She sprung up, frightened, her green
eyes wide, her teeth gritted in a human snarl. They stepped back, holding out
their bare hands, slowly.

"It's all right, Mademoiselle. We shan't hurt ye." The dark haired one said,
his light eyes full of smiles for her. The other warrior, who was a bit
thickheaded, but considerate, nodded.

She relaxed ever so slightly, pulling the cloak around her body, and nodded.
She tried to remember the language, it had been a few dozen moons since she had
talked to anyone. The dark haired one turned to his companion and said
something quietly. The other nodded and they turned towards her. "Come with us,
please. We shall take ye to the Healer Fae, nearby." The red haired one said,
taking her arm, gently.

"No, it's fine!" She cried, sounding high pitched and in fear.

"Kiesk!" Snapped the hazel eyed one, "Let her go as she wishes." He smiled at
her kindly. "My lady, we did indeed, happen to see the numerous wounds you have
received and we are quite concerned. We see so much death, so often in the
daily life, and to see a young woman go by wounded, goes against our nature."
He told her, his hazel eyes full of amusement and compassion. He liked her a
lot.

She couldn't help but smile. "...I am not hurt badly." She hesitated
still.

"And with the help of Devlin, you shan't be any further." He said, standing up,
his armor rustling into place.

They led her down the dirt path of the Crossroads and introduced themselves on
the way.

"My name is Ezekiel. That's Kiesk." Ezekiel told her with a nod at his brother.
"We are both warriors, but are also knights." He turned his light eyes towards
her, a deep interest in her. "What is your name?"

She paused a moment. It had been so long since she had revealed her name to
anyone, she had almost forgotten what names meant to people. "I am Cielle." She
said, finally.

"That is a quite interesting name. It rings with importance." Kiesk commented,
cheerfully. "What does it mean?"

Cielle blushed, her blonde hair falling in her face. "Maiden of the Night."

"Aye, a lovely name indeed." Ezekiel put in, dreamily.

## The Legend of a Cursed One

They came to a wooden door, decorated with all sorts of strange symbols.
"Devlin gets real serious about the evil warding rituals." Ezekiel explained.

She looked at him silently, studying the features of his face. They knocked
quietly. "Come in, Aislings! Called a cheerful, motherly voice. Kiesk opened
the door and stood aside for Cielle to step in.

Unusual smells greeted Cielle's keen sense of smell and she wrinkled her nose
in bewilderment. Human smells. She thought seeing a back hunched over an table,
cluttered with various scrolls, parchments and potions. Bottles of all sorts
were on the table as she came in and her green eyes gazed over them. Heavy
texts and more parchments were messily in order in the oak shelves.

"Mother Devlin." Called the two gigantic warriors, their voices full of
undisguised affection. The woman at the table turned and smiled at them,
holding out her arms. She had soft white curls around her matronly face, but it
was premature. Her white cloaks fluttered quietly as she came to greet the
warriors as Cielle watched, gaping.

"Mother Devlin took care of us, and raised us when our parents abandoned
us." Ezekiel explained, his eyes bright.

Devlin looked at Cielle kindly and compassionate, but also very interested.
Cielle stared back. She must of known can't believe I was so foolish to be
allowed into this trap. Cielle thought frantically, thinking of the door behind
her. She lifted her face as a soft hand touched her arm. Cielle looked at the
woman's eyes with a bitterness and sorrow that only Devlin could see at the
time.

"Fear not, young lass. We are friends here." She murmured to Cielle. She turned
to the two men who watched silently. "Leave us, please, my children."

They nodded and Ezekiel gave Cielle an encouraging smile as he closed the door.

"Sit down, my dear." The Fae said, patting the table, cleared off suddenly.

Cielle sat down, in disbelief. She could of sworn it was cluttered just a
moment ago. She allowed Devlin to attend to her wounds, still wary, however.

"Why do you fear humans?" Devlin asked, softly and without warning, as she
calmly dabbed at the bloody wounds with a cloth.

Cielle jumped in surprise at the sudden question. She said nothing though, her
mistrust in humans, being so strong, and it was the way she had lived. She
bowed her head.

"Do not worry, tongues do not waggle here at Devlin's." Said the woman,
mildly. "I know what you are."

Cielle raised her frightened eyes to stare at the Fae's in shock. She opened
her mouth to speak and only uttered a hoarse croak. She shook her head and
watched her, her heart beating fast.

"I see things. I know that even the beast wolves don't accept you. Nor
Aislings. You are wandering in the middle, lost, torn. The Aislings find out
your identity, they hate you for it. For being something unique. They can't
accept it. You haven't had Aisling or human contact for many a moon, I know.
Ever since you were cursed."

Tears streamed down Cielle's face and she bowed her head, the golden hair
falling forward. Her voice came low and full of old pain. "My mother and father
were devoted to Ceannlaidir ...they worshipped three times each and everyday at
his temple. When I was born, they took me to his temple with the faith that he
would surely bless me. He indeed bless me, for their faith ...Now it seems a
curse. He told my parents that I would be the leader of his wars, the weapon,
with more strength of any creature that walked the lands of Temuair. The cross.
He told them to raise me until I came of age - to adulthood. Then I was
supposed to return to him." Eve bit her lips, remembering the things, her old
grandfather had told her, before he died. "They were so proud of me ...but I
couldn't control my transformations. I would be running without worry and then
I would be a wolf. One day, a Aisling saw me change." Eve shuddered, in the
memory. "The word spread through town in a matter of hours. 'Witch', 'beast'
'demon child'. I was, but a small child. I could not control something that
came so naturally to me. Of course with the blindness of children, I assumed
everyone could do what I could. They came to our small house ...their torches
aflame, the reflections of their frightened, cruel eyes. I could smell their
fear and hatred, like ...a foul fruit. I hated it. They broke down our door, in
pursuit of my family. My mother and father stole me out, deep into the woods.
We hid for nights..days...Searches were put out, with a reward, increasing in
value every night. They wanted to kill my parents ...Because of me ...because
of their hatred of me." She shook violently, her nails digging in the wood.

Devlin watched, listening intently. Eve's eyes wandered in the tale.

"They found us, one stormy, lonely night. My mother made me go, run away. She
told me to stay away from the Aislings, they would not understand. I couldn't
go, leave my only sources of comfort, my parents, to fend for myself. My legs
were so weak, I remember my father screamed at me to go, as the door was
bursting, splinters of jagged wood, landing at my feet. His fear was strong,
his voice full of panic.

I ran. I cried all night, running for miles, seeing so many nightmares during
that night, I know not if they were all in my head or not. I missed my mother,
her warmth. I howled for her, mournfully. I couldn't stand it, I went back to
the town ...and I found them." She swallowed, her eyes lowering, but Devlin had
seen the fury in those green eyes.

"They were hanging off of trees ...their necks broken, hanging by a rope. In my
grief, I did not see the crowd that suddenly surrounded me. I charged in my
rage, me, a small, but powerful creature. I know I killed quite a few, but how
many, I know not. My eyes were burning, I couldn't think, just acted. I escaped
them. I ran deeper into the woods. I eventually found a old hermit's house. I
called him grandfather ...He took care of me, despite my difference. He
understood, he was also different, in another way.

I hear the call of Ceannlaidir, every night. I so fear Aislings ...I don't
trust them ..But I shall not attack unless they attack first. I don't want to
hate. I fear Ceannladir wants me to work with Aislings ...I am hesitant to go.
I want to be accepted as what and who I am." Eve bowed her head.

Devlin was silent, for a moment. "He shan't reject you. Neither would my two
boys out there, if they were to know. Your tale is sad, yet familiar, Cielle.
Yes, I know you name." Chuckled the Fae, noticing Cielle's raised eyebrows. "Go
to Ceannlaidir. Your fate lies there. It cannot be avoided. He shall guide you.
I can't see what he'll do...but no other god would accept you. You bear the
mark of war. He shall call everyday, even if you refuse. Consider it a great
honor to be what you are. To be a creation of a god. Face your fears and hold
your head up high. The sun shall shine everyday, upon you. Go in peace, my
lass." Devlin said, kissing the top of Cielle's head.

Cielle found herself heading for the door, fully clothed in a clean, neatly
sewn corsette. Her wounds were gone, like they had never been on her body. She
was confused, feeling Devlin's gentle presence in her and then fading. She was
outside of the door, blinking stupidly in the bright sunlight. Armor creaked
loudly and Ezekiel leaped up, his brother gone.

"Greetings, once again." He said, with a polite bow. She nodded. "Devlin is a
mother to us all.: he said, happily. She couldn't help, but smile. He seemed
vaguely familiar, his manner and his laugh. "Where are you going?" He asked.

"To Ceannlaidir's shrine." She answered, looking at him, hard. He didn't answer
or smile, staring at her intently. She felt at ease when he looked at her. She
hadn't ever talked to a young man before. "May I accompany you there?: Ezekiel
asked, his hazel eyes penetrating hers. She suddenly felt weak and wondered
wildly why she was feeling aggressive and the wolf inside her, leapt to be
released, but she kept it down. They went together.

## The Recognition

She stopped, gazing at the great building, feeling all of courage draining from
her. She glanced at Ezekiel and found him smiling at her, his eyes full of
understanding and of something else. It was almost like he knew what it was
like to be in her boots. He stayed outside, however, not giving a reason why.
She didn't ask either.

She climbed the stairs and entered the shrine, immediately feeling a new kind
of feeling. She saw worshippers in a small gathering, she could smell what they
were feeling. All eyes turned towards her as she came in. The sermon stopped,
the priestess swallowing hard as she caught gaze of Cielle. Did they know?
Cielle thought, her heart pounding.

"Good day to ye. Ceannlaidir blesses everyone with the strength of the day."
The priestess greeted. Cielle let out a silent sigh of relief and walked to the
front, where Ceannlaidir's great statue loomed. She knelt and stared at it, her
green eyes wide.

The other worshippers couldn't help but steal glances at her. With her
oblivious knowledge of Aislings, she had no idea, nor was she aware that they
were admiring her beauty. Her hair shone greater than the golden armors, her
eyes brighter than the jade rings on their fingers, her flesh smoother than the
silk of their hats.

She listened to the sermon, telling tales of Battle sights and victories lead
by the lord himself. Were there others like her? She wondered. She was on her
hands and knees, in deep in worship and not even half aware. She could feel
Ceannlaidir's strength coursing through her veins. She needed it, she longed
for it and reached out her soul, searching for it. The other worshippers
watched in awe at her intense worship and all of them fell on their knees,
astonished, as a bright golden light flashed within the room.

Ceannlaidir appeared before their very eyes. He was golden with his majestic
aura, his great sword, lay sheathed against his side, his armor gleamed, his
eyes were stern and proud.

They called out to him, their voices full of longing, admiration and joy. He
gazed upon them.

"Twice, I have touched a young child, who knew no more than the idiots that
roam the lands outside of Temuair. I made them special, for they bear the mark
of ME." His voiced boomed and they bowed their heads. "I wanted them to become
great war leaders for our people. To lead on the battle, we fight.

But cursed to be, you and Temuarians alike, ignored my gift." His eyes were
full of flames and fury. "You condemned them, until they were afraid to be who
they are. My creations. I shall not bless another in my anger. These two are
still alive, yes. Do not condemn them, for they shall lead you to be victorious
in the great war that is to follow very soon. The war shall wage so fiercely,
you shall cry out for help. If you break your swords and armor, what have you
fight with? Wit? Don't be ridiculous." He turned his eyes towards Cielle, who
still had her eyes closed, her head bowed. "I am pleased, young one. You shall
be rewarded for your loyalties to me. I am watching." And with those final
words, the great god disappeared in a fiery blast of light. Cielle was thinking
fiercely, her heart beating fast. He said twice ... Two people! But who could
the other be? Was there someone who could understand her? She could feel
Ceannlaidir's strength and bravery flowing through her.

She stood up, not seeing all the eyes upon her in amazement. No one could say
anything. She looked towards the entrance, feeling something there. She saw
Ezekiel leaning against the wall, his hazel eyes intently watching her, she
could see them, even from the distance she was standing at. His gaze burned
into her, and she wanted to embrace him, suddenly. He slowly moved his head
away, and walked out. She stared after him for a long time and a slow smile
spread over her face. He was the black wolf.

## Blood and Love

2 Deoches later.

After much brewing and conflict, with constant fighting between Temuair and a
neighboring land called Serendia, war broke out over a newly discovered land in
the north. All Aislings came together, with traitors and spies from each side
along with the battle fled people who fought for their very lives. The gods
argued with each other, not liking the disruption in the people. Ceannlaidir,
however, was soaring with the Aislings, giving them the courage they needed.
The survival instinct of war arose in their blood and they constantly saw
Ceannlaidir in bodily form. Ezekiel and Cielle were elected as head generals
and the people listened to them, as they spoke to them, Ceannlaidir speaking
through them.

With Cielle's ability to transform, and her immense strength, she frightened
many a soldier of Serendia. The Aislings were amazed at Ezekiel and Cielle with
their skills and knowledge. These things came so naturally to them, and they
could easily get their people to understand them. After each battle, their
names were cheered out on with the wind. They were not being pushed away, they
were being accepted. The Aislings accepted their bizarre abilities as the way
that they were.

Cielle in her quiet moments to herself, was often thinking of Ezekiel. They
came across each other, but were often to busy to exchange more than a hello.
She wanted to challenge him, to test their strengths. She felt the energy of a
puppy when she felt like this. She also liked Ezekiel in a very different way
and she could see it in his gaze, when they caught each other's eyes from
across the camps.

## The Sweet Moon Worship

She was walking in the camps, not being able to sleep, the moon calling out to
her. She saw him, standing near the trees, staring at the moon, his black hair
blowing softly in the breeze. She came up to him as he spoke to her, without
glancing at her.

"The change is coming ... The full moon signals the feeling of fleeting this
skin. We shed it, our wildness emerges and we become the moon, her children,
Ceannlaidir as our father." He said, quietly, his voice soft. His hazel eyes
were growing bigger with the moon.

Cielle gazed at the moon, her skin rippling, feeling the pull, to bring forth
the sweet change. She tasted the crisp air with the tip of her tongue. She
shivered and it took all of her restraint to keep from running off into the
night to embrace the night. She had a responsibility, to guide the Temurians at
all times.

Ezekiel turned his hazel eyes that were starting to turn golden to her. "Don't
resist it, Lord Ceannlaidir understands our feelings, our wants, our needs." He
said, in a low voice, barely above a lulling growl. He pulled her to him and
kissed her suddenly, a wild kiss, full of the intoxicating nature of the Moon.
Her mouth opened to his, surprisingly. He stopped and looked at her.

"Come with me." He said, his face flickering in shape, with the change.

She swallowed and glanced back at the camps. She couldn't resist the exotic
enticing. She ran with him under the moon for the sweetness of that night.

With the two leaders, chosen by the god of War, filled with the strength of
Ceannlaidir, the cunning luck of Fiosachd, and Gramail's judgment, the
Temurians won the War of Test. Devlin watched the Serendians retreating through
her magic crystal and let out loud whoops of joy. The march home was one of
victory and the Temurians celebrated for all of the Deoch, with the bards
telling the stories of the two leaders, blessed with unnatural powers.

They honored Cielle and Ezekiel in their own way, the real Temurian way of
Aislings, they accepted them and made them honorable citizens always to be
praised and admired. Many Aislings worshipped Ceannlaidir after the battle and
shifted their faiths to him.

## The Final Mystery

Cielle and Ezekiel were lovers of the night, and of each other. They ran
together through the Moon's rays with howls and cries of wildness. During one
night, shortly after they arrived home, they lay under the stars, basking their
bodies in the glow of the Moon.

Cielle was quiet, thinking. She finally spoke. "Why did you banish me from the
wolves. Why were you with them?"

Ezekiel gazed at her, softly. "We have a taste for blood, as they do. However,
they do not have the magic we have. They cannot experience the joy of being
human, of feeling love, of crying, of affection. We are not wolves. We are not
man. We are our own creatures, we are just as divine. We can exist in either
society, but we shall never be one of them, truly. We belong together, to give
each other strength, love and challenges. We shall not pretend any longer."

Cielle listened, feeling his words, giving her strength. She still felt
the bitterness towards Aislings for the violent deaths of her parents.

"We have an alliance," Ezekiel said, as if reading her thoughts, "That is what
we have with humans." He leaned over and kissed her full of deep love.

Howls rang under the moon, the joyous cries of life, the beauty, the
intoxicating wilderness of nature that awes the lovers of the Earth. We are the
Divine.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/SkyMaiden_Moon.htm .
```
