# The Fate of Nations, Act I

_by Sophocles in **Dark Ages**_

_The following is the manuscript of Act 1 of a play currently being
collaborated upon by several aislings. The play is very incomplete but it is
officially being written in the current season, Spring of Deoch 7. Any
aislings interested in the production of the play please contact Sophocles,
resident of Mileth._

## Act 1 Scene 1

_Councilor Cyril chases King Bruce on his way out the chambers_

Cyril: Sir! Sir! Wait!

King Bruce: What is it now Cyril? This better be good I am meeting with
advisors to prepare a speech to the people of Rucession concerning the new
settlement..

Cyril: Its Marlin he's gone mad and is causing a terrible commotion across the
countryside!

King Bruce: Mad, what do you mean?

Cyril: He's been ranting to our library patrons about some strange legend
and rumors about it are starting to fly about Temuair.

King Bruce: What legend...

Cyril: Something, about shards of ancient Aosdan origin, Conix I believe he
calls them.

King Bruce: (looks alarmed but quickly hides it) Detain him in the dungeon, we
can not have civil disorder over some unfounded claims by our librarian of all
people.

_exit Cyril,  King Bruce remains alone, walks over to the window looking out_

King Bruce: So he has unearthed the legend of the Conix.... What now will come
of this? The prophecy..could that frightful hag could have spoke the truth? No!
I refuse to believe it the demise of Loures will not come of this! Hmm.. If the
shards are scattered about so that no one may gather them all then the full
power of the Conix may not be realized, I must act quickly, my kingdom shall
not fall so easily. Not even the fates can end the glorious power of Loures.

## Act 1 Scene 2

_Two Guards appear in the library, on of them attempts to arrest Marlin the
Librarian_

Marlin: Fools! Why do you come to stop me!? The Eye of Truth can not be
contained! Oh yes it is upon us, it has seen me, and only to soon will it see
you. Much to soon..mhuahuah, #*$#* (cackles fiendishly)

Guard 1: (strikes Marlin with the hilt of his saber) Shut up you old loon!
Cyril has ordered that you not be allowed to speak and besides no one who cares
is here to hear your ranting.

Guard 2: I'm not getting near him man... I think he's come down with some kind
of fever, no sir I will not go near him.

Guard 1: Hell if you aren't, take him down to the dungeon before I have you
thrown in there with him! By Ceannlaidir you know I'll do it you! Your so
squeamish, you'd have never gotten into the Royal Guard if it was up to me.

Guard 2: Well it isn't up to you, so stuff it.

Guard 1: Grrr, you better watch it, I'm up for promotion soon and your going to
pay for you insolence then.

Guard 2: Whatever, man your just another grunt like me, I'm never going to be
taking orders from yer sorry

_enter Weisirgar (guard lieutenant)_

Weisirgar: (cuts guard 2 off in mid-sentence) What the hell is going on here! I
thought I told you two to take Marlin to the dungeon!

Guards 1 & 2: Aye Sir!

(guards grab Marlin and walk down the stairs)

## Act 1 Scene 3

_King Bruce sits before the Council_

King Bruce: Noble gentleman a crisis is at hand. Our librarian has created
rumors that run amok across our fair countryside and religious factions are now
near bloodshed over holy quests for these shards that are nothing more then
fairie tales.

Cyril: Sir, I propose we keep Marlin detained and question him on the matter,
the rumors across the land will dissipate once they find no such shards that
Marlin had been ranting about.

Zifrandi: Aye, I am in concurrence with Cyril's analysis.

King Bruce: No, gentleman Marlin has compromised the security of our fair
lands, and there need be no more questioning, we will try him in front of a
tribunal within the moon, he is allowed no witnesses. The penalty for causing
civil disorder is the Mileth Sgath pit. I decree that he will be tried on this
grounds.

Cyril: But Sir! You Sgath on a mundane! It has never been tried. You could
eternally damn his soul...

King Bruce: So be it if he is found guilty. He will be tried within the moon.
That is all concerning the subject. There are two more matters I wish to deal
with. I have two parchment scrolls that must be delivered. These messages are
important and I wish you to stop for no one. Euoglios, deliver this parchment
to Bahadir, the Goblin Chief. Reslepius, you are to take this scroll to
Phallin, the Grimlok Queen.

Reslepius: Sir, how does it pertain to the matter at hand?

King Bruce: You need not know now, just deliver them, and do not open them.
Your lives shall pay the forfeit if you disobey.

Reslepius & Euoglios: Yes my liege, immediately.

King Bruce: Leave me now, I have other affairs to attend to.

_Exit Cyril and the remainder of the council, King Bruce remains alone_

King Bruce: This situation will not resolve itself. The lesser races will be
brought in to disrupt these holy quests. The rediscovery of the Conix must be
stopped. If the ancient feud of the lesser races can not disrupt the quests
then nothing will. Aisling-kind must be duped into the lesser races beliefs
about the Conix, they must not know the truth. The religions will easily be
duped into the lesser races beliefs about them.

_King Bruce walks over to the mirror and stares a scar from his youth across
his forehead as the lights dim around him._

_End Act 1_

_written by Sophocles Tsiari Iscasclius_
_apprentice wizard and struggling playwright_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Sophocles_Nations.html .
```
