# A Wizard's Mistake

_by Teger of **Dark Ages**_

The day dawned beautifully, a yellow sun rising into the sky. Clouds marshaled
around the orb as soldiers marshal around a general. Tristam looked at his feet
and adjusted his spectacles. He was well into his journey to the distant port
of Abel and to him this day was like any other. He looked around from his perch
on the bow of Anrcium, his small boat, to watch the fish gently swim in the sea
around him. Above him a bird cried, and dipped his wings at him in a salute.
Tristam was the most powerful wizard in the world at the time, but he was a
gentle man, who had never lifted his hand in violence against any living thing.

He climbed down from the small viewing platform, nodded to a passing crewman
and went back to his quarters to continue his work. At the moment he was
working on translating the language of the Dubhaim, but was having little
success. He had deciphered that certain signals between larger, more
intelligent creatures had some sort of language behind them, but that was as
far as he had gotten. After a few minutes of staring at diagrams of Dubhaim
activities he decided to try to take a crack at the Igneous Cube. Must people
have heard of the Igneous Cube in one form or another, but Tristam was one of
the few people to actually view the ancient relic up close. He drew it out of
its satchel with special care, making sure he didn't damage it at all. After
setting it on his desk he lit another torch and looked at the cube itself. He
looked at it like a man looks at a fine diamond, or an especially beautiful
woman. He looked it at with an eye trained by years of historical examination,
but most of all, he looked at with a loving eye. For he loved any object that
gave him a glimpse of the past, of fallen empires and lost loves. This day his
examination of the cube started like no other, he stared at the object for an
hour straight. He drank in the swirls and whirls of its surface, looked at the
patterns set all over the lock, and eyed the graceful lines that bordered each
face. After looking for some time he decided he'd try to open the thing.
Usually, when he tried to open it, he would simply try to pick the lock, but
this time he decided to try something new. Grasping the cube in his hands he
gave it a hard jerk, trying to twist one of the faces off. To his surprise he
heard a crack and the cube unfolded like a blossoming flower. He was so
shocked, he nearly dropped the now opened Igneous Cube, but he regained his
sense in time and gently set it down on his desk. After collecting himself for
a few seconds, he looked down at the treasure he had just discovered. The flaps
had folded out, and the cube lay flat on the ground, its golden edges
glimmering in the lamplight. On what was the base of the cube rested an egg, a
beautiful egg which shimmered like a pearl. It's milky white surface seemed to
reflect Tristam's thoughts, because, he though if he looked closely enough, he
could see shimmering lights dancing. Tristam sat back and decided to think. He
knew he had just made the greatest scientific find of the deoch, but he
wondered how he would present this discovery to the rest of the scientific
community. One wizard worried him the most, the resident wizard of Mileth Dar.
Tristam knew that Dar hated him for some reason that he didn't know of, and he
suspected that Dar would do whatever he could do to undermine Tristam's
credibility, trying to prove that his discovery was a fraud. After thinking on
this topic for a few lengths, he decided that the only reasonable thing to do
would be to hatch the egg. Tristam was a knowledgeable man, and he knew how
birds protected their eggs, and helped them to hatch. He set out to recreate
such an environment for his find. The first thing he did was place some straw
from his bedding and place it into an empty box. He made sure that the entire
box was covered, and with much care he lowered the egg in the box. The smiled
widely at how beautiful the egg looked in the setting sun that reflected
through his porthole, and how respected he would be after this creature
hatched. After making sure the egg was safely secured he decided to take a
short nap before procuring the other necessary elements to ensure the egg's
successful hatching. He lay down on his bunk with one hand resting on the side
of the egg's box and drifted into a peaceful sleep.

When Tristam awoke a few hours latter, he opened his eyes to a site to behold.
Sitting on his chest was a creature like no other. It was covered in scales
like a snake, but the scales where colored dark gray. It had to small shriveled
wings perched in the middle of its back, and its small mouth was full of sharp
teeth. It gave a small squawk and its intelligent eyes peered back at Tristam.
Tristam let out a small squeal, and pushed the creature off his bed. He then
climbed to his feet and backed to the edge of his room. After giving a sharp
glance at the monster he began to chant a spell under his breath just in case.
At the moment, the door to the cabin was thrown open, and the captain of the
boat, Arnold Trsnasde, stood there. The young creature let out a shriek and
launched himself at the stocky aisling. Arnold, was much taken aback by this
sudden attack and was knocked to the ground where he was held down by his
attacker. Tristam had finished chanting his spell and finished it with the
words 'ard srad'. A huge bolt of fire rose from his hands and smashed into the
creature. Tristam expected the creature be dissolved into ash, but when the
smoke cleared the creature stood there unharmed. It gave a shake of it's beak,
turned to face the disabled Arnold, and bit him in the neck. The bite was deep,
and Arnold's blood started to pour onto his shirt.

Tristam's spell casting had made a good amount of noise, and the only other
passenger on the vessel, a priest, rushed into the room. The young acolyte of
Glioca took one look at the monster and muttered the only hostile spell he
knew. 'Deo Saighead' he finished, and a glare of light assaulted Tristam's
eyes. The creature gave a loud shriek, and flew through the gap in the door,
and into the darkness of the night. The priest turned immediately to attend to
the fallen sailor, and quickly realized it was to late to save the aisling. His
eyes filling with tears, the priest cast as spell to ease the man's pain as he
eased into the next life. As the last remnants of life where fading from the
man he muttered a word, then died. "What did he say?" Tristam asked, his voice
filled with grief. "Draco, he called that monster Draco," the priest replied.
Tristam gave a slight nod and faded into unconsciousness.

Many nights later no sign of the creature had been seen by any of the people
Tristam had contacted and he sat in his cabin in a depressed state. As he was
thinking about the incident he remembered what the captain had muttered before
he had died, the word Draco, and decided to look it up in the dictionary he
kept with him at all times. There was only a short entry for the word and it
read as follows.

_Draco: Taker of life._

No sign of the creature was seen for many deochs until some very insightful
aislings ventured into the abandoned Kasumian mines and saw the monster. It had
grown very large, and even more dangerous. Today it is known as the scariest
monster in all the land, the Draco.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Teger_Mistake.htm .
```
