# The Darkening

_By Triad in **Dark Ages**_

_Dedicated To Angelic, who is always worthy of praise, and Bentic, who is her
wonderful compliment._

_The bard pulls up his barstool and seats himself squarely upon it. All the
tables turn to face him. Today, he will tell a tale, and the people love to
hear his tales. Without so much as a clearing of his throat as warning, he
began his yarn..._

"Thank you sir, thank you. It's wonderful to have your support, I'll remember
you when I have my position!"

"Aye, Pentarian, it's good to support you. T'aint a better man in Temular to
hold the job. Good luck on your way up, and don't forget the little people!"
Colm shouted his kind words backwards as he trotted out of the tavern.
Pentarian smiled his trademark warm smile, the smile that could, and usually
did, put anyone at ease. Pentarian was what most people that knew him very well
called "Overly Charismatic." He could charm anyone out of anything in an
instant. Usually, though, he didn't have to, years upon years of hunting had
made Pentarian not only an unparalleled fighter, but also richer than most
aislings or mundanes would ever be. He didn't keep his gold and his prized
possessions in the bank, it wasn't enough security for him. He built his own
storage place and had it guarded with enchantments and magical bonds that would
up a dragon to shame. Of course, most of the bonds were done for free, just
little favors he picked up from wizards now and then.

Everyone knew Pentarian, and he knew everyone, he was usually their friend.
That's why, when the mundanes decided that they would allow people to run for
positions of leadership, he leaped at the opportunity. There was no doubt in
anyone's mind that he would win. It was just a matter of organizing himself
enough to get the support. Pentarian sized up his chosen meeting place, a
corner of the tavern in Abel that he had staked out to hold little "meetings"
with influential people, but it usually didn't take much convincing to get
support from anyone. He had charisma on his side.

Slowly, Pentarian turned around, facing a pile of old, dirty, brown sacks in
the corner. "Alright Matriana, you can stop holding back your laughter now."
The pile of sacks complied, immediately bursting out into roaring laughter.
Slowly, a beautiful woman in rogue garments emerged from the mess and dusted
herself off.

"Sir," she spoke in mock seriousness, "it is your support that I need, you are
the one that I want to see behind me when I stand before the council of
mundanes to request a political position." She resumed her laughter again. "It
wouldn't be so funny if you didn't say it to _every single person_ that you
_meet!_

Pentarian sighed. "Matriana, I'm not trying to be false with these people, but
it's the thing that they like to hear. Everyone considers me their friend, and
they want to know that I return that belief. And I do. It's just a bit hard to
come up with something new to say every time I meet one of them."

Matriana collected herself, "I understand, I understand'it's just'geez, do you
really have to be so noble?"

Pentarian spoke softly. "This world needs more noblemen. We are in a time of
great crisis, of unending strife. It's just individuals like me that stand up
and'"

Matriana shook her head. "Alright, alright, I get it'you know what needs to be
done'" She walked out of the tavern, still shaking her head and mumbling about
being too noble at times.

"Hey!" Pentarian yelled, "Come by and see me tonight, I could get bored!"

Matriana turned on her heels. "Why do you always spend full moons indoors? Are
you some sort of were-beast?" She flashed a sideways smirk at Pentarian.

Pentarian smiled. His warm, soothing smile. "I just like it better indoors
sometime. Come on, keep me company?"

Matriana smiled. "Alright, I'll come by later!" She spun around, slipped
through the door and was gone.

Pentarian breathed out a sigh of relief. Matriana probably was his one true
confidant. He would tell her anything. And of all the women that wanted him,
the only one that he wanted was Matriana. Someday, he would step up his
advances on her. But not today, not this night. It was a full moon, and
Pentarian knew what that meant. It meant he had to get home. Pentarian started
toward the door and opened it slowly to peek outside. The sun was slowly
setting, he had to get a move on or he wouldn't make it back in time.

***

A few minutes later, only the forest was around to see Pentarian running
through the trees to his secure abode. He looked over the mountains in fear.
The sun would set soon, and then it would be too late, but he could see his
little fortress ahead, a few more steps and he would make it. Pentarian broke
out into a sprint for the last few yards, and then stopped to open up the door.
He looked up, but found that he was still far away from his house. He ran
forward again, but found himself in the same place, or was it a little farther
away this time. Pentarian began to sweat. He hadn't allotted himself enough
time to get back, and night was falling, he had to get inside, NOW. Using his
powerful warrior legs, he sprinted as quickly as he could toward the large
wooden doors with their magical wards and intricate enchanted carvings, but as
he ran, he only got farther away. The path stretched itself longer and longer.
Pentarian became more and more anxious, he was in trouble.

"Lost?"

Pentarian pulled to a halt. A short, old man in a dark cloak stood right beside
him. The color instantly drained from Pentarians face, rendering his
charismatic visage as repulsing a gargoyle's grimace. "It's...It's YOU!" He
managed to get past his quivering vocal chords.

"Now, now, is that any way to talk to a priest?" The old man cackled, I am a
holy man of the cloth, I think you'd show a bit more respect than that.

"No...No...not again...I won't be turned by you. Do you understand? I won't!"

The sheer volume of the old man's laugh brought dead leaves down from the
trees. Pentarian cowered in fear. "Listen boy, my master has charged me with
bringing you toward our way. And what my master desires, he receives. Each
night that I get to visit you, I pull you closer and closer. I think tonight,
you might just step over the line."

"NEVER!" Pentarian drew his sword. It had been forged from the strongest steel
in all the kingdom in forges that drew their heat from the center of a raging
volcano. It had been adorned with jewels of enchantment and spells of
strength. And Pentarian swung it with all of his mighty muscles, it cleaved
through the tall grass surrounding the old man and passed cleanly through his
chest, cleaving still more grass on the other side. Pentarian stepped back,
expecting to see the old man fall. The old man did not fall.

"It won't work boy. You already have one foot in our land. That sword has been
blessed by Cleanlaidir. One of my masters good friends. It was forged in the
fires that rage from my master's kingdom. You cannot hurt me with a weapon
of..."

"No! Don't say his name'" Pentarian fell to the ground and started to scuttle
away.

"...Sgrios" The mere mention of the name caused Pentarians heart to stop. Only
his quickly fading strength of will kept him alive. The wind stopped moving
through the trees. The crickets stopped chirping. Everything was quiet except
for the beating of a single heart.

"Now, boy, this is my favorite part...this is where I show you what is really
in your soul...why you must turn to our side..." The old man spread his arms,
and the world faded away. Slowly, from Pentarian's left side, came a dim light,
it slowly grew brighter until Pentarian finally recognized it as dragon fire,
and the dragon was feeding...

...On children.

Pentarian retched, he vomited blood and tar and bile on his well-tailored
armor. The dragon pulled at arms and legs, it sunk it's teeth into the bodies
of a hundred thousand children. It swallowed them whole and crushed them
beneath his feet.

"Please...don't show me this...make it stop'"

"Dear lad, I'm only showing you what you already know. You don't have to change
your ways to become a minion of Sgrios. Just accept what you already know." He
stooped low and scooped up a cup of the blood that flowed from the gruesome
scene. "Here, my boy...drink."

"NEVER!" Pentarian turned to run...but didn't get three steps before running
into the old man again.

The old one spoke again "But I have so much to show you...like this..."

Suddenly, Pentarian's skin began to crawl. He looked over the horizon to see a
most gruesome scene. An army of the undead clashed with an army of the living.
The hordes of skeletons slashed through unprotected human flesh. Blood flowed
across the field as wave after wave of the humans were cut down. The old man
brought Pentarian up to see it all, and Pentarian felt every cut and stab. He
held himself on all fours, covered in his own blood and tears.

"Listen to me boy, all of this terror and hatred can be yours, all of this
power over all of this evil. You just have to do one thing..."

Pentarian looked up for a moment. His eyes locked with the stitches across the
old mans face where old man eyes should have been.

"You have to kill...her" his wrinkled hand came up and pointed into the
darkness. Slowly, Matriana emerged.

Pentarian tried to open his eyes through the vomit and blood that caked his
body. He saw her...saw her body...saw her delicious...neck...

And then...Pentarian woke up, back on the path.

The sun was rising, the full moon was fading. Pentarian drew a sight of relief.
The nightmare was over. He stood on the path, facing the west. And he looked
down.

Matriana lied there. Her outfit soaked in her own blood. Her neck had been
chewed, her stomach maimed. Her entire body was covered in slashes from his
sword. And Pentarian was covered in her blood.

He didn't remember if he had killed her or not. He didn't remember the last few
hours. But...it somehow didn't feel important...Pentarian buried her in a
shallow unmarked grave off the side of the path. He told no one. As soon as the
last shovel full of dirt landed on her body. He turned on his heels and began
to walk to the tavern. He had a meeting to attend. There was always more power
to be had, always more power.

...Somewhere, deep in the heart of Dubhaim castle, a deep voice spoke to an old
man...

_The bard lowered his head and stepped down off the stool. The crowd waited for
a few seconds, then collectively sighed._

_One of the more unshaven men spoke up. "You are sick, boy, do you know that?
Eating children? Where do you come up with this stuff?"_

_"Oh, here and there," the bard replied, "it takes an imagination."_

_The man replied, "Triad, I guess I don't want to know..."_

_Triad spoke too, "Yeah, you're right, you don't'"_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Triad_Darkening.html .
```
