# Cassidy's Gold

_By Tyrain of **Dark Ages**_

Everyone of us hides, we hide behind masks of our true selves. Some of us hide
very little, while some of us hide a great deal. My story is about those masks
and the deception that we make others believe is true everyday of our lives.
Everyone knows Cassidy, the man that runs the bank in the good town of Mileth.
Oh how could you forget him? When you walk into his bank he greets you with a
smile and a booming voice. If that were all I could say about Cassidy I would
be very happy, but I cannot stop there.

My story begins one very cold winter night. I had arrived in Mileth late from a
hunting party and the snow was falling like cotton. The only light I had with
me when I passed the town entrance was my torch I held high. The light creating
a perfect sphere around myself and onto the snow. Luckily for me I could walk
the path blindfolded because I had lived in the town since I was very young.
Almost too young to remember. The guard standing outside near the Glioca Temple
suspiciously eyed me until he realized who it was then in the cold mustered
what smile he could with his half-frozen face. I too was beginning to freeze
and my legs were growing numb when I first saw the lights of the tavern ahead
of me. My mind wandering to the warmth I imagined inside the inn were no doubt
I would find friends drinking and singing to chase away the worries of the
present world. Most definetly the cold was an absent memory to all those warm
inside the bar..

Running as fast as I could, I almost missed Cassidy and another man standing
beneath a tree near the fountain. I was all ready to walk up a say Hello to a
man I've known all my life when my eyes caught sight of a dagger, gripped in
the gloved hand of Cassidy. Around here drawn weapons were not an uncommon
sight as I need not tell you, but this was different, this weapon was drawn
upon another being, another aisling. I stopped about twenty feet from them,
paralyzed from the cold and confusion equally. The dagger waved about guided by
Cassidy's hand, then he yelled, screamed almost. This was a man who I've never
known to yell, threatening a man in plain sight. Or so I assumed. My fears were
comfirmed when the dagger thrust forward into the man's chest. The reddest
blood I have ever seen spilled out onto the snow, staining it. The tainted snow
was soon crushed by the falling body. Cassidy still standing. His hand reached
down to the body, to help I thought, but no, instead the hand drifted to the
man's money belt. Twenty feet away I watched on as Cassidy counted the ill
gotten gains and smiled. Smiled? Was this the Cassidy I had grown up to know?
No I told myself. What could I do know? I should have stopped him, but what
now? I ran.

I spent my night freezing inside the stone walls of the crypt. Among mice where
that night I felt were my peers as I believed I was no better than them. I
wandered to my room at the inn early that morning, before the sun had woken
Mileth. Trudging through the snow, my tears of lost life froze before they hit
the ground. I slept for days, not wanting to leave the room even when I could
sleep no more. Since then I have slowly become my care free self again.
Whenever I go to Cassidy's Exchange, I have to look into Cassidy's eyes,
because everytime he looks upon money you can see it in his eyes, the greed,
the greed that comes from Cassidy's Gold.

_Tyrain Mythrael_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```
