# By Any Other Name

_by Zirilian in **Dark Ages**_

_Aisling._

_Dreamer._

_But the aisling is more than just a dreamer. He is a doer. He can be more than
any mundane can be. He can have Insight. How he uses this insight is his own
choice--but all Gods would urge him to use it well. For with knowledge comes
power. Knowledge can give one the power to heal. Many aislings heal others. But
the ability to think, and to reason, brings with it huge responsibility._

_One who thinks can also devise plots. One who thinks can be helpful and
loving. But one who thinks may also be a tyrant. The ability to think is a
blessing: one can make his own decisions, then. But the ability to make
decisions can be a terrible curse. For, make the wrong decision, and you've no
one but yourself to blame._

_With thought comes alignment. One cannot be a true neutral: he must always
tend towards good or evil. And there is, of course, the choice of which to
preach; and which to practice. And, as any thinker can tell you, appearances
can be deceiving..._

Tasha and Brendan. Two aislings, in the truest sense of the word. Since
childhood, they had known each other. Since childhood, they had romped in the
woods together, sniffing at the myriad of colored flowers: some elicited
sneezes (which elicited laughter), others brought only a happy face at the
beautiful smell.

Both aislings put their spark to good use. Brendan was a poet. He could capture
any scene in words on a simple sheet of parchment. He could make the weakest
man brave, or cause the strongest warrior to cry. His descriptions were so
vivid that the blind could see, and the deaf could hear.

Tasha was an artist. As Brendan painted with words, she took brush in hand and
set the scene to paper in her own special way. She drew anything, and
everything--the tiny squirrels and vipers in the woodlands, the fog-covered
mountains at twilight. Her paintings seemed so real as though they may, at any
moment they chose, jump from the page of their own volition.

Tasha and Brendan fell in love. Both seemed to have been two halves of the same
whole--both were kind hearted aislings, and both had a special affinity for
using their talent to its fullest, and sharing it with the world. Their time
together was a happy one.

Brendan was a warrior, but certainly not of what was considered the norm. Few
warriors he knew wrote much poetry. His hair was an oaken brown, his eyes a
strange orange-blue; as though twilight had met morn and the two had melded
into one. If one looked at them, they could almost be lost in the seemingly
endless depths of those eyes.

Brendan, though possessing nearly twenty-six insights, usually preferred a
plain blue jupe and blue boots. A blade hung at his side: it was a blade that
any warrior would have been proud of. It was well-cared for, the hilt was a
ruby red, with gold at the ends. The blade itself was a shining silver; one
could use it for a mirror. It reflected the sun and seemed to glow like an
angel's weapon, making Brendan appear all the more awesome in battle.

Tasha had quiet purple hair, that hung to midway down her back. It hung a bit
in the front, too, and she often had to swipe it from in front of her eyes. The
wind liked Tasha's hair, the nearly silent breezes sent it curling up and
around, and then back down. Tasha was a wizard, though she did not hunger for
hard fact as much as many.

Tasha mostly shunned the normal wizard's garb, opting instead for robes. She
found many robes: some were made of fine silk, others of heavy cloth that was
quite comfortable. She enjoyed these robes immensely, and scoured Temuair in
search of them. It quickly became her hobby, and whenever she passed by Abel
she spoke with the mundanes to see if anything new had come in on the recent
ships.

Tasha learned secrets slowly but surely, she was a mage of sal, for, she felt,
this fit her personality. The mundanes, though, soon whispered of something
new: _necromancy_. A new secret, for any wizard to learn.

Necromancy had an allure. It was dark, centuries forbidden by the Gods.
Aislings so easily tempted by anything which is not allowed. So Tasha listened
intently to everything the mundanes had to say.

_Zombis. Strange parts of stranger beasts. Deep, dark places and spirit-
infested mansions. All of it so, so tempting._

***

Tasha crouched next to Brendan, examining a strange leaf the two of them had
found in the woods. Brendan took a few notes on the leaf, rolled the parchments
and shoved them in his rucksack.

Tasha had found a new robe in Suomi, woven from fine plant fibers into an
extremely heavy but beautiful and comfortable material. The cloak flowed over
her such that one could see only her face, and her hands, when she bothered to
extract them from the cascading garb.

Finally, Tasha rose to her feet. "And what might you be doing?" Brendan grinned
at her and stood up as well.

"I'm going to go learn one of the new secrets...the mundanes should have them
figured out by now," she giggled.

Brendan laughed. "Dare I ask what it is?"

"Oh, you can ask. But will I tell?" she teased.

Brendan grinned. "Alright then. Just you be careful."

"Of course," Tasha smiled. "I'd be afraid you'd get bored without me." The two
shared a quick kiss, and then Tasha dashed off to learn what she could.

***

"Yes...I have something," the wizard hissed.

"What?" Tasha asked excitedly.

"Summon Beast," the mundane replied. "Name says it all." His rasping voice lent
a very eerie quality to the conversation, seeming to issue from his mouth and
fade instantly into nothingness. Tasha had to lean close to hear it, as the
very breath that carried the sound out whisked it away as soon as it left the
mouth.

"How much?" Tasha asked.

"One...million...coins," the mundane whispered. Tasha was a bit taken aback at
the high price of the secret, but it would be worth it, she assured herself.
She fished into the crevasses and folds of her robe and withdrew money enough
for the spell. The wizard made a few notes in spidery handwriting in Tasha's
spellbook.

"There," he murmured. "That will do. Begone now...lest the darkness that
congregates here, find you." His voice seemed to chill Tasha, for she pulled
her cloak tighter about her, and turned sharply, then strode off into the
gathering twilight.

***

Tasha stood alone, a good distance from the shop where she had obtained her new
spell. She looked down into the spellbook, where the mundane's strange style of
writing seemed to crawl across the page. She pondered the words for a moment,
then voiced them.

_Fire,_

_Brimstone,_

_Death_.

Suddenly, the air chilled to a nearly unbearable temperature. Tasha grabbed her
cloak and pulled it tight to her, but the wind that swirled about her form
seemed unhindered by the thick cloth. It bit into flesh, bone, and soul.

Finally, the isolated little gale cascaded to Tasha's feet, and just beyond,
and convened, manifested. The wind, Tasha thought, must be the breath of Evil,
some otherworldly force come to bring a terrible beast to devour her.

And a terrible beast it was. A smile, but not the happy smile she and Brendan
shared. It was the crazed grin of an insane jester, caught in mid-cackle by
some horrible twist of time. Its eyes were empty, blackness was all that
returned her stare.

The creature come to her had a strange body, covered in some hard carapace,
almost cylindrical, but narrowing into a tail at the end of the body. It made
no sound other than a strange and disturbing _hiss...hiss..._ Tasha realized it
must be the thing's breath, summoned from the deepest of fiery pits, called up
from the most evil, Sgrios himself.

Tasha called her chants to the fore of her mind, ready to destroy the beast,
should it attempt to harm her. But it merely stood, and stared. Although the
eye sockets were empty, the thing seemed to be focusing. It seemed to know just
who and what and where it was looking at, and Tasha could feel it was not
blind.

She backed slowly away, and it followed her. Somewhat panicked now, she moved
further, and still the beast came forth, stopping always a few feet from her.
Its shadow, cast by the mocking not-light of the bright full moon above,
stretched far past Tasha, running many feet behind her, as though the beast
were possessing all this place.

And then, Tasha realized, this truly was the effect of her spell. She had
called this creature to her, and it followed her will. Beast and master stood
in the utter silence: the crickets had stopped chirping, and the birds ceased
singing, as though in awe of the young wizardess and her charge.

Tasha's form was darkened by the creature's bounding shadow, the sickly pale
illumination of the moon negated by the thing in front of her. Tasha moved
slightly, and now half of her bathed in shadow, while the rest of her was
played off of by the shining, elderly moonlight, nearly cast away by the
encroaching darkness.

And Tasha laughed. She looked at the beast, standing at military attention, the
only sound its rasping hiss-breath. She tossed back her head, drunk with the
horrible new power she had been given, and laughed, cackled like an insane
witch. She drunk in the dying moonlight, fed suddenly off its sickness and
paleness and the evil that those wandering beams held.

Tasha howled, half rage and half insanity, and the creature stood and rasped.

***

The next day, Brendan sat with Tasha, quietly setting quill to parchment.
Suddenly, Tasha looked up. "Will you always love me?" she asked. Brendan looked
at Tasha, somewhat surprised.

"Always," he responded with conviction. "On my honor." He grinned. Tasha smiled
softly, and both returned to their work. Brendan pondered the question a
moment, then returned his mind to his poem.

***

Each night, Tasha wandered deep into the woods. At first, she had to ward off
the beasts that dwelt there. After a few moons, though, she began giving off
some strange sense to the other creatures that they should not approach her.

Tasha would find a clearing, and chant the words.

_Fire,_

_Brimstone,_

_Death._

A creature would appear, and Tasha would practice: moving, coordination,
spellcasting. Each night she became more drunk with this power. Although its
source was Sgrios, it flowed over her like the sweetest wine, coursing through
her and lighting her whole body aflame with its tingling sensations.

And each night, she became more consumed by this evil power, more taken up by
the need for this summon, as though Sgrios called her to an irresistible duty.

And each day, Brendan could feel Tasha becoming more distant, and he worried.
He would ask, and she respond that it was nothing, only his imagination playing
tricks on him. But still Brendan doubted, he could almost feel the strange
force at work behind his love.

Finally, one night, Tasha knew she could stay in the civilization of Temuair no
longer. She must leave the town and learn the true mastery of her new art.
Leave everything behind. Clutching her red-hued robes tight to her, she dashed
off into the night.

***

The next day, Brendan searched. And searched. And searched. But Tasha had left
no trace when she disappeared. And so Brendan searched. For moons he looked for
his lost love, finally resigned to never finding her.

So Brendan trained, to take his mind from his heartbreak. He became strong,
knowing many things of the warrior's craft. He never taught young warriors, but
always honed his own skill, pushing his limits as far as they would stretch.

Although he despaired of ever again seeing Tasha, something nagged at the back
of his mind, something that would never let him forget her. Sometimes he
cherished it, at others he wished it would vanish. But it was always there.

***

Many deochs later, Brendan's sleepy town was given a rude awakening. Something
assailed the town. Nobody could tell what it was: it was buried deep beneath a
tattered red cloak, fast becoming threadbare. The town militia was raised and
sent against the thing, and it killed them all seemingly only with a thought.

The townspeople needed a hero. They came to a recluse, a warrior by the name of
Brendan. He was supposed to have great strength and greater courage. No one
knew much of him, for he had left the town a good time back and gone to live in
the mountains.

They told him of the thing that was destroying their town. He knew he had
deserted the town long ago, but that he could not let it be destroyed. Brendan
swore that he would try to combat the beast.

Sword in hand, he started down the mountain.

***

It was nearly twilight when Brendan arrived at the town. The sun was lying
itself down on the horizon, giving rise to the moon, still as pale and sickly
as the day Tasha had vanished. It seemed almost proud of its dominion over the
world, cackling down on the little people below.

Brendan crested the rise, seeing a lone figure on the field. It seemed bent and
misshapen by the cloak piled upon it, and he could see nothing more than its
shadowed form. Something about the creature was familiar, and Brendan lowered
his sword slightly as he approached. His shield was strapped across his back,
he used it only for a rear guard.

He approached the creature, wondering if he might even have a chance to fight
it before it killed him. But it merely stood there, almost seeming to float. He
came within five feet of the thing and murmured, "I'm here."

The form nodded, a splinter of moonlight revealing the worn red color of its
robes, beaten by the passing deochs into a threadbaring mess that seemed to be
the creature's only wardrobe.

Brendan heard a hissing sound emanating from beneath the folds of the fabric,
and realized it was the things breath, pained and slow. The figure raised its
head, and the cloak that hooded it revealed a face. The features were battered,
the flesh grey and twisted. The eyes seemed to be a strange, red- black that
reflected the moonlight into a strange illusion that placed water in the eye
sockets.

"Fiend," Brendan accused softly. The creature shook its head almost
imperceptibly. "I'll kill you," he said, his voice seeming to be sucked in by
the thing, as if it were feeding off his anger. "You have decimated hundreds of
my people..." Brendan's anger rushed to him, filled him, yet he could not-- or
would not--lift his sword from the ground and strike down the thing.

He looked at it again, then finally found it in himself to bring his blade
above his head. The thing's hissing seemed suddenly more focused.
"Bren...dan..." it rasped. "Bren....dan..."

Brendan felt almost a physical blow hit him at the sound of the beast's voice.
His own mouth moved, but no sound came out.

"Ta...sha..." the thing continued. "Ta...sha..."

"Tasha?" Brendan asked urgently. "What of Tasha, what do you know of her?"

"Meee," the thing hissed. "Meee..."

Brendan started, this time feeling the wind fly from him. Now he knew what
secret Tasha had gone to learn so many deochs ago. Necromancy had influenced
her, twisted her. It had feasted on her flesh and her sanity, and now she was
Evil's servant.

The beast looked at Brendan with pleading eyes. The eyes told of an anguished
soul, one that wished it had never gone into that shop all that time ago, never
learned that secret, never read those words.

It held a parchment out to him, scratched and dirty. It was scribed upon in
long, spindly handwriting, the creature's own.

"Reeaddd..." it implored.

Brendan looked at the thing, at Tasha, at her soul, asking to be released from
this body and this torture. He gave the creature a kiss. "Always," he told her.

And he read the words on the parchment.

_Sanctuary,_

_Love,_

_Release._

A warm wind swirled about the two of them, warding off the cold night. It came
close to them both, hugging them tight and warming each bit of them that might
be cold. And Brendan looked at Tasha one last time, and he smiled.

And Tasha smiled back, a contented, loving smile, of an agonized soul finally
put to rest. And as she smiled at Brendan, she faded into the night.

_Zirilian_  
_Skye Warrior_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/lit/Zirilian_Name.html .
```
