# Old Hunter and the Mask of NamuNamu

_by Zylecia in **Dark Ages**_

Efraim wrung his dusky hands, suddenly feeling very old as he pulled at a leafy
little weed from his small herb garden, watching the children of Noam,
including his daughter Adilia run about in the declining heat of wanesun time.
"Oh, you always feel old!" He thought to himself "Get over it!" Efraim had
decided to move from Asilon to Noam when he and his love Carmen had learned she
was pregnant with their daughter. They had been without child though it never
seemed to bother Efraim as much as Carmen. Their complexion had become even
more healthy, as was commonplace in Noam, which had a warmer inland climate
being so close to the Desert of Fire.

Efraim had been a great hunter in his youth, though as his hair began to whiten
he began to tend to his little herb garden, which during this season was
bursting with all manner of root and flower that he would use to treat the
ailments of the Noamians. Occasionally he would trade with the Pohwa for some
tasty meat. The mischievous side of the aging man led him to not disclose the
questionable meat he often came home with, despite Carmen’s constant chiding.
He was by no means unfit, standing at about six feet, a rather hawkish face
that was topped by his now white hair, sharply contrasted to his dusky skin,
weathered by a lifetime under the sun of Medenia. His mustache had grown out,
coming just past the edge of his lips. He was proud of how well it had grown
in, until it too started turning white. The old man carefully placed some
cactus-root in his basket, called that not because a cactus grew out of it, but
that the root itself had many sharpened points growing from it. Efriam grew it
specifically for an herbal concoction the Pohwa drank. The commotion had
finally run in enough circles to bring them to the garden as the aging father
stood up slowly, basket in hand.

"Papa!" Adilia cried "Tell us one of your stories, pleeeeeease?!" she pleaded
in unison with the other children.

"Yeaaah, come on Effy!" exclaimed little Kabok, using a nickname the children
had given him. He smiled broadly, stretching the crows’ feet along the edges of
his face, laughing deeply, and placing his free hand on his daughters head. He
rubbed her head affectionately, mussing it up to Adilia’s annoyance.

"Awwww! Geez Papa, stop iiit!" she whined, as the others snickered at her. He
intentionally let out a rumbling, bellowing laugh, leaning forward a bit, as if
he was going to whisper next.

"STORIES.." he shouted "ONLY-if you can tell me…where my pet serpent ‘Bitey’
went to..I thought he was around here somewhere- oh look!" he exclaimed,
suddenly pointing to a large root the children had left alone when trouncing
his garden. After they stopped screaming, Efraim was seen being chased for some
time.

***

After he had time to rest, and put the herbs he had gathered away, Efraim had
the children help each up the ladder to the roof of the family home (Adilia
rode his shoulders), a moderately sized earthen home, which was nice and cool
inside during the hot season. That is, the season where it’s a bit more hot
than normal. In the orange light of the setting sun the sons and daughters of
Noam sat facing the old hunter. "Mmmm, mmmm…" he pondered, facing the sun so as
not to make the children hurt their eyes. "Did I tell you about why the salog
have dark eye coloring?" he asked, ponderously.

"Yesssss" groaned the children.

"What about when I caught the fifty foot tall scrummel, eh!?"

"We heard that one too, Papa." Adilia said plainly, rolling her eyes.

"How about when I found the gilded silver sal-"

"Come onnn Effy, st-o-o-p that!" little Kabok groaned.

"Oh, all right, all right.." Efraim said, quite bemused. "Well, have you all
seen a NamuNamu? The tribe of little ones, smaller than Kabok, even!" he added
chuckling, bringing an ‘aahhh’ of comprehension from the children, and one
scowl. "This was back when I was say, oh, twenty cycles old?" he began, as the
whispering died down to his own deep voice began.

***

And so the old hunter began to regale his small audience by narrating his own
life:

By this time, Efraim of Asilon had already learned how to hunt well with a
spear, or even just a bola and his bare hands. He had heard rumors of fine
blades and other weapons, but was more at home with a more traditional weapon.
Late in the Fullsun season young Efraim sat outside his hut, sharpening the
edge of his black spear, the tip was strengthened volcanic wash-up he had found
on the western shore of Alsaids gulf. After finding just the right kind, he had
it tempered by the weapon smith so it would not shatter, and retain most of its
fine cutting edge.

"Efraim…Efraim! Hey!" came a voice, cutting through his musings. "Efa, one of
the old mun- ummm.." the boy stopped a moment "Elder Jokha told me she wants
youta go an’ look for any flocks of three-eyed eagles to see if we should hit
them before they leave, huh?" the little bronzed boy said, half asking a
question.

"They send me to see if what slain I can bring back has favor with the spirits.
Then we can bring the others, ya?" he said, reading young Rakka’s face, which
was half-listening, and half staring at the spear Efraim had been working on.

"Oh…ah, ah huh!" Rakka said, coming back to his senses. "Spirits at your back
then, brother Efraim!" he shouted, running back to Jokha to inform her that
their young hero was leaving presently. Retreating back to his hut, the
darkened hunter clasped on his tighter anklet, so there would be no sound of
stalking, and drew the strings into a knot on his orange shorts, which had
several interlacing and intricate traces of green tumbling with brown around
the cuffs, especially. He opened a small clay pot, and streaked the sides of
his face from mid ear to his chin in a jagged pattern with purple and green
facepaint, made from pestdrel squeezings that had been boiled over. Taking up
his spear and adding the final touch: a quiver with his bolas in it and took a
deep breath. He walked from his home, and to the path from town.

"What exactly did those things look like again? Efraim thought to himself. "I
remember the three-eyed part- ah! Now I remember! They can’t fly, have that
silly tail. A flock of those shouldn’t be hard to find. I think the Calsandia
Phowa tribe might be around this part of the cycle, too. I’d best to stay out
of their way."

It wasn’t long before quick-footed Efriam had reached the Jara River. Of
course, back in those days you had to swim it, or find a small boat that a
fisher was not using and avail oneself of it. After a bit of a search, he had
found the favorite ford by foot, and crossed to the northwest. The sun had
already begun to wane; luckily the young man had found ancient stone ruins to
camp at on the northern edge of the Asilon prairie, which he sat atop, staring
towards a small flicker in the wind that had caught his eye.

Drums on the wind, weak. Great shadow on the plainsrock, howls and great cries
heard. "What..what in the spirits are those?" Efriam said to no one. "Those are
surely not Phowa." he finished, staring warily at the noises that carried him
to sleep.

***

"WAKE UUUUP!" boomed a voice from nowhere.

"Huh..ahhh.." Efriam groaned, knowing his carelessness had again gotten the
upper-hand. "What this time? The Phowa again? I thought you liked me.." he
rambled, slowly blinking his eyes open. What he saw could not keep him from
laughing as hard and twice as loud since Minbali had gotten his head stuck in
the spitting pot during a feast. "WAAHAAAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!" roared the
bound hunter in the mid-morning light. All about him stood -children- all of
them no more than two and a half feet tall, brandishing effects like his own,
but smaller. He had several spears pointed at him, which took away none of the
tactless hunter’s mirth. They all had the -cutest- faces, rosy cheeked and
curly dark brown or black hair, and wore little orange or green garments
complemented by black shoes. His laughing ceased when the lingering question of
where that booming voice was coming from had answered.

"SHUT YOUR BIG MOUTH THIS INSTANT!" fumed the voice. To the dismay of Efriam,
it came from the closest ‘child’ who was standing close to the spear wrenched
from him while he was, what he assumed to be carried off by five or more of the
orange clad warriors. "We did not take you out of malice, hunter, but do not
force our hand, we are fierce!" claimed the leader. They were not little
children, they were just tiny ones!

"What do you want from me?" demanded Efriam.

"We are the Namunamu, you will aid our people, or die by the spear!" the lead
Namunamu boomed.

"Yeah!" squealed another, as some raised their tiny spears to the air.

"Umm..allright, I guess if you have to say it that way. GREEEEAT HUNTER EFRIAM,
slayer of salog and wild pottery, pledges his spear!" the young man boasted
arrogantly.

"So it shall be. Release him. Come, my name is Tintha."

***

Tintha had lead the man of at least twice their size deeper into the plains
than he had ever been before. Efriam was soon left to his own devices, as the
Namunamu searched for what higher ground they could, having blessed the young
Asilonian hunter as best they could. As he crept through a large uprising of
vegetation, Efriam saw what Tintha had spoke to him about on the way. He lost
his smirk when he confirmed indeed, a red-spot pack of hyena had desolated the
area around the mesa where the Namunamu lived. As he crept to the edge of the
great bush; he had an idea.

Then he struck with fury and spear.


"EEEEFRIAAAAAM!" hollered Carmen from the ground. "Calita needs you! The baby
comes!"

"Early eh?!" Called back the ageing man, interrupting his story. "I’m coming!"
The children groaned in disappointment.

"Papa, how did you save them? An’ what about the mask?" asked his daughter.

"Well, it turns out they can’t judge the color of things too well, so when I
stuck two eyeholes on a big leaf and stuck it on my face, they didn’t do much!
They were vicious, but never had a big leaf stare back at them before! HAAAAH
HA HA HA!" he laughed triumphantly, while the children groaned and rolled their
eyes. "To this day, they wear the mask to aspire of their savior." he said
plainly, then added. "Oh, and it might make good hyena camouflage too. And
that, is how the Namunamu earned their mask." he finished, halfway down the
latter.

The old hunter will return!

_Zylecia Mimori_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```
