# The Last Stand

_by UndeadBard in **Dark Ages**_

Screams, horrible screams of pain. Oh, the pain. Waking from her slumber,
Glioca sat up and began to weep from her heart. “Something terrible has
happened,” she gasped. She looked around the once beautiful landscape. It is
now covered with death and decay. “What has happened here?” She soon learned
Ceannlaidir’s hordes had stormed the lands. They had seemingly come out of
nowhere. In a instant they wiped out everything in their path. Only a few of
her people remained. She could hear them calling for her. She went to their
side; so many wounded, so many already dead. “Ceannlaidir’s rage is fierce. My
people cannot live like this.”

A loud crack of thunder clashed in the distance. She looked to see her people
forming a line across a hill. As she looked closer she could see an army on the
other side ready to attack. In the middle of the battle lines Ceannlaidir
appeared. “Send me your greatest warriors!” he yelled. Foolishly a large group
charged him. Knowing they did not stand a chance, Glioca yelled, “STOP!” A
large impenetrable barrier formed around her people. Glioca appeared within
feet of Ceannlaidir. “You shall not harm my people!” she ordered. Ceannlaidir’s
rage flared. “Very well m’lady,” he said with a sly grin, “Then I shall harm
you!” He drew his sword, slashing it across her throat. The fatal wound glowed
and mended itself back together. Ceannlaidir, in seeing this, grew all the more
angry. He attacked her in a fury. Every wound, every cut, healed as fast as it
was delivered.

“GRRR!” Ceannlaidir turned, “Men !! Surround the area and set up camp. She can
not protect them forever.” A cold shiver went threw Glioca. “He's right, even
if I could, my people cannot live like this. Something has to be done, but
how?” She turned to see what few warriors she had left. They stood tall in the
front lines facing thousands. She could sense their fear. She raised her arm,
and with little effort waved it across in a single motion. She watched as they
calmed. A sense of peace came over them. At that moment she knew what had to be
done.

Late in the night Glioca entered Ceannlaidir’s tent. Seeing this, he
immediately drew his sword. Glioca extended her arms, revealing bottle of
brandy. “A peace offering m’lord,” she said. Ceannlaidir, caring nothing for
peace, couldn't resist a good brandy. He reached out and snatched the jug. As
he drank Glioca summoned all of her powers into her fingertips. She reached up
and touched his chest, completely filling his heart with compassion. As he
lowered the jug, their eyes met. And at that moment the two became one..

The next morning Ceannlaidir awoke alone. He stood up and exited the tent.
“What a lovely day,” he thought to himself. "What’s this?" Something red caught
the corner of his eye. "Its a flower." He reached down to pluck it from the
grass. Holding it to his nose he smelled it, “Hmm, how wonderful… Ack!!!!!!!!!"
The warlord crushed the flower in his hand. "You wench, what have you done to
me!!”

Time passed on. Suns grew into moons, moons into deochs. Eventually Glioca’s
shield fell, yet for some reason Ceannlaidir refused to give the order to
attack. Many of his men began to loose faith in him, and left the fields. Until
one day Glioca was seen stumbling through the fields heading towards the camp.
Suddenly she fell. Ceannlaidir ran to her side. The few faithful men that
stayed by his side witnessed a miracle that day. A child was born: Not any
child, but a god. Ceannlaidir held his son. For the first and last time in
history a single tear formed in his eye. 'This is something new.' everyone
thought. 'A gathering of peace and war, strength and wisdom. What is this child
to be?' Ceannlaidir, knowing that a sword would hinder the child's wisdom,
turned to Glioca and said, “This child shall never hold the hilt of a sword.”
Understanding this, Glioca nodded and added, “Nor shall he know the powers of a
staff,” for she knew it would only hinder the child's strength. Ceannlaidir
then hugged the child tightly and handed it back to its mother. “As for you.
You are still my enemy.” With that he turned his back on the both of them.

_UndeadBard_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document was lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```
