# _**Feallsanachd de Kynn**_  

_(The Philosophy of Love)_  

_Author: Angelic Stedwinn_  

![](angelicsketch.gif)  

_Bookbinding: Bentic Stedwinn_  

_Library Copy by The Loures Library Markdown Subcommittee_  

_To show love, is to spread love. To show kindness, is to spread kindness. To
embrace the light, and allow it to flow through you, is to become a beacon in
the darkness. Embrace the light, open your heart, show the kindness that you
know is there. Love and compassion are the routes to happiness; it is there for
everyone to find._

## Foreword and Introduction

I will be the first to admit that I am not much of a writer, the pen feels
unnatural in my hand, and the words merely come forth as if I was speaking to
the reader. I apologize for my lack of style, and my inability to effectively
use this medium. Yet, I have been told many a time that I should try and put my
beliefs on paper, so I will at least try.

I suppose I'll begin by reiterating that I'm not exactly suited to writing
scrolls such as these. I am no scholar, do not use reason and logic to run my
life, nor do I feel as if I am on a constant quest for knowledge. I simply am
who I am (and this I don't even really know), and think with my heart. In the
following pages I hope to express to all whom wish to read, what my vision of
the world is, how I see all that goes on, and how I go about living the way I
do. I hope to express the virtues of love and compassion as best I can, and
make everyone willing to spend the time able to understand my philosophy.

## Foundation of Faith & Belief

In order to understand the way I live my life, one must first understand four
basic principles that I believe in. I have enumerated upon them below, as the
four pillars which support the foundation of my philosophy of life.

### Pillar I - The Balance?

This thought becomes even clearer if we try and define what good and evil are,
and then take a look at an example situation. Good (as it is used in reference
to light) means "worthy of respect or commendation, by being beneficial,
honest, noble, etc. ... virtuous; pure; well-behaved." Evil is defined as,
"violation of moral principles; improper conduct...injury; misfortune...a cause
of injury or misfortune...a malady." Now let us imagine a world filled with
good people, they care about each other and try not to do each other harm. In
this world there is one man who does not live this way, he does his best to
harm others in every way he can, and live a life dedicated to creating strife
and unhappiness. After several years this "evil" man realizes that he is no
longer happy being the way he is, and after considerable internal struggle
gives up his ways, and begins to live like the rest. If those that believe in
the balance are correct, then good no longer exists in this world, even though
the people are just as good as they were before the last evil ceased to exist.

With the idea established that the balance is not necessary, I then take my
next step.

### Pillar II - Light The All Encompassing

Many people seek such happiness in different ways, most are harmless to others
and cause no suffering, and these are activities of the purest beauty possible.
To be able to create happiness at the expense of no one else's is to bring a
true gift in to the world, bringing with it great joy. It is when aislings seek
happiness, at the expense of others that the situation begins to get complex.

With this goal in mind, that of achieving happiness, many aislings willingly
embrace the darkness and use its often wicked forces to bring harm to others.
These poor souls feel that by causing more pain, they will be happier, they
will enjoy themselves... It has been my experience that this is never the case.
Such happiness as that which is gained by harming others is hollow and empty,
there is no true joy or happiness in the experience. It is merely a desperate
action to try and find happiness when all others have failed.

By embracing the light an aisling can find the happiness they strive so heard
to achieve. The purity it brings to one's spirit and heart is filled with joy.
With this joy realized, the mere wish to spread it to others brings a happiness
which is nearly impossible to find elsewhere. The light breeds the happiness
which the darkness tries vainly to emulate.

The brilliance of light provides what all people strive for, while darkness
merely destroys it. It is this simple reason that I believe that a world devoid
of darkness, and full of light is the world that all people should hope and
dream for. Although my ideal dream may not be one that people believe is likely
to be reached, I will continue to strive for it, and do my part to bring what
happiness and light to the hearts of every aisling I can. It is not because I
am a tool of Danaan; it is not because I want power over my fellows; it is not
because of some great quest that my ancestors have sent me on; it is merely
because I care so greatly about those around me that I want them to all to live
in happiness.


### Pillar III - There is Light in Every Heart

The heart of every thinking creature possesses an inherent light. Though many
creatures surround their heart with shades and darkness, constructing
sometimes-unshakable walls around their heart, deep within these fortifications
the pulse of light still beats.

I have seen this to be true in every case I have so far encountered. No matter
how wicked a man I have met, I can always feel at least a dim light penetrating
the wall surrounding his heart. To most, the light is either too dim to see or
they do not wish to see it believing that everything is either good or evil.
Yet to an open and sensitive heart the dim radiance can be felt. It is a
feeling like no other, that dim hope that the darkness may not claim another
soul, the light clamoring to break free.

This light exists even hidden within the hearts of those who call themselves
creatures of darkness. Although I have yet been unable to bring any creatures
of darkness, the dubhaimed, to feel and realize the light they do possess, I
sometimes see a glimmer of it through the intense feeling of pain caused by
their hatred, anger, and fear.

I hold a deep conviction in this belief, and always try to free the light I
feel in others hearts, even those of the most wicked and evil in Temuair. For
to unlock this light, is to open the doorway to their happiness.

### Pillar IV - Only Light Can Bring Forth Renewed Light

The hope is that the heart within the walls will catch sight of the new light,
if it does then it can grow in strength. Before long, with hope and love, the
light within the walls will be strong enough to breach them, and light will
once again shine from where their was once nothing but a blackened heart.

Only by shining the light upon the darkness, will the shadow be lifted. Merely
trying to attack a shadow, only places another obstruction in the way of the
light trying to shine upon it.

## My Philosophy, And View on Life

### The Way I Live

I live my life with one purpose in mind, to follow my heart wherever it will
lead me. By embracing my heart, and the light it represents I feel an inner
happiness which no matter how often it is assaulted, always wins in the end.
Sorrow, misery, misfortune, death, and destruction can all be tossed upon me.
They can all cause me great pain and suffering, but in the end I will emerge
renewed, because I am happy with the way I have lived, my heart is pure, and my
conscience is clear.

By following my heart I forgive those who have wronged me, help all those who I
can, and spread the light to all of those willing to listen. By showing love
for all of those around me, and ridding my heart of hatred, fear, and anger as
much as I possibly can; a sense of love, peace, and happiness is all that
remains...happiness.

This happiness I feel is not a blind intoxicating drug, nor does it mean,
perhaps, what those reading this believe it means. Happiness is not a sense of
constant joy; it is not a smile on my face and blatant disregard for the
suffering around me. Happiness is a more profound and deep-rooted sense of
peace; a sense that no matter what happens I will not be upset with whom or
what I am. A feeling that allows you to overcome the many hardships that one
faces in life, and helps put a smile back on your face after a great many
sorrows.

Even though I possess this love and happiness I will not claim that I am never
sad, for this is far from the truth, but regardless I am very happy. Even when
I am in my deepest sorrow, I still possess my happiness. It is something that
can not truly be explained, one must experience it to know it, and once you
have, you'll know that you'll want to always. It's a feeling of continuity of
purpose, a feeling of eternal love, and of mutual understanding with oneself
and life.

### A Helping Hand

As I walk around the land, looking this way and that, I see and feel many
things. I experience the joy and happiness of those around me. I can feel the
love between young lovers, the joy of a young warrior at reaching his next
insight, the joy of a rogue at the great job of polishing he's just done. Yet
not the whole world is so happy. I also feel the more often prevalent emotions
of sorrow, anger, hatred, and fear. Often the words written upon the board of
Mileth exude such an aura of anger and hatred that I am unable to read them for
the pain they cause me... The heated words that rise up so easily from the
throats of young aislings, and the fear and hatred of those they do not
understand tear through my heart almost as powerfully as the sorrow of a broken
heart, the emptiness of being alone, and the cries for help from those too far
down to ask for it. These are the things I see and feel as I walk amongst my
fellows; the sights and sounds of my life are often overpowered by the intense
feelings and emotions flowing within my heart.

Yet this is the way I want to live, because deep down I know that I am at
peace. The sorrow and pain I feel is only temporary, before I am restored to my
natural state of content happiness. This is what it means to be happy, and why
it is so important to all of us.

### To Only Show Love

It is one of the greatest possible joys, to be able to help someone who is full
of sorrow to feel happy again. This is one of the many reasons I seek to aid
all that I can... If I find that one of my friends or even a total stranger is
sorrowful or unhappy I will do my utmost to try and help them. This often means
listening to their problems, and showing that someone does indeed care about
them. Love is so easy to show, if one just opens their heart, it can mean so
much to someone who is filled with sorrow and feels alone. A hug, a shoulder to
lean on, and an ear to listen can be more important then any amount of money or
worldly goods. Allowing others to put some of their sorrow on your shoulders
frees them of some of their own misery.

And I do know that my heart can deal with the sorrows placed upon it, I know
this because I am at peace with my heart, and I have embraced the light. I know
that this coupled with the love I feel from those around me allows me to
recover from the sorrows placed on me by caring for others. This is happiness;
it is true, because even though I will be afflicted by sorrow, I know that it
can be overcome. The sorrow others feel is placed, at least in part, upon my
shoulders and then from me it is spread to those I love and my own heart, the
darkness and sorrow then dissipate in to nothing and disappear. The light has
shone on the shadow, and the shadow has vanished.

The person filled with sorrow knows that someone cares for them, and has
lightened the load they carry, bringing greater happiness to their life. My
heart is lifted knowing that I have helped someone, in at least the smallest of
ways, and happiness has thwarted sorrow. Compassion and caring helps to spread
the happiness that we feel, and is perhaps the best way for one to find
happiness as well.

It is not only I who feel this way, anyone who opens their heart will find that
this is true. Follow your own heart, embrace it, and you will learn that you
can help others as well. Yet be careful, if you feel that your heart can not
bear the strain, then don't push it too far. We are all different, even though
we are all so similar.

### Conclusion

To show love, is to spread love. To show kindness, is to spread kindness. To
embrace the light, and allow it to flow through you, is to become a beacon in
the darkness. Embrace the light, open your heart, show the kindness that you
know is there. Love and compassion are the routes to happiness; it is there for
everyone to find.

If one can walk down this path, it will bring a brightness to your life that is
unmatched by any other, short of true love. It is not always easy, many of our
natural instincts tell us to do other then that which the light may ask. Yet we
may use our hearts to defeat our instincts and defeat our primal nature, just
as it can drive out the shadow of darkness. It is my solemn belief that this is
the best way any person can live; accepting, loving, kind, and compassionate.
Let us all embrace each other with love, and live as friends...   

_~Angelic Stedwinn~_   

```
N.B. This entry has been heavily edited to match the Library formatting.
The original may be viewed in its entirety
[here](http://darkages.com/community/phi/Angelic_Love/).
```
