# The Transaction of Loures

_A Commentary upon the predicament of the ruling power of Temuair_  
_By Aeife in **Dark Ages**_  

## Introduction

_The Discussion of other kingdoms in relation to Loures_  

In this document, the capital of Loures will be, for the most part,
concentrated upon. Her history has spanned across centuries, from the reign of
Tenes to the conquering of Undine. Through much of her existence, she has long
been viewed as a center of power, and many times even as a tyrant. But behind
the surface, beyond the masquerade of secure and unfaltering strength, there
lies hints of unstable doubts that plagues her place in this world. From the
discussions of her relationships with the other kingdoms of this world to her
declining influence, know that this is only one doctrine discussing her
situation and the inner politics of the possibilities of other conquests among
many of the resilient legacy of Loures.

_Influence and possibility of conquest upon the primary kingdoms of Temuair_  

Loures has long been known as a capital city with a long history of aggression.
However, her relationship with each major kingdom is at best, neutral, and at
the worst, in a relation not unlike the raging war of master and slave.

## Piet

Lying just north of Loures is the township of Piet. Ringed by a range of
mountains forming a semi-circle to the north, with a dense forest to the east
and bodies of water from the sea bordering the east and west, it is
understandable why Piet was long conquered by Loures. Not much is said about
Piet, although many have suggested that the plentiful supply of wood is derived
from this town.

There are some advantages gained for Loures. In the armory, a ring called a
Talos Ring is forged and sold to young Aislings who wish to improve their life
and health, and Piet, unlike Loures, has a faery priestess living not far by
the river.

There is no need to consider conquest of Piet as Loures already rules Piet,
seen by the forcibly stores of those who did not manage to pay the taxes to
Loures.

As far as any can see, the relationship between Piet and Loures is that of
neutral detachment. In the case of Loures, so long as Piet obeys the laws and
pays the taxes, there is no need for further contact.

## Rucesion

Long famed as a city of knowledge and learning, it is no surprise to see that
flocks of wizards gather in that lamp-lit town. Placed in history as the
landsite where the 6th element light was discovered, it is now currently a city
of vast knowledge about magick and the elements.

As it is also the only pathway to the castle of the dubhaimid, many wizards and
priests have journeyed across Rucesion to study the grotesque carvings within
the castle itself and contemplate the meaning of the stone statues of the
dubhaimid embedded high upon the walls of its twisted corridors.

Rucesion is situated on an island joined to the larger isle of Dubhaim Castle.
As a result, to conquer Rucesion, Loures would have to gather a fleet to cross
the ocean, but considering the fact that Loures is on the western and wrong
side of the coast, that would be a very difficult endeavor. Rucesion is also
mainly overrun by Aislings - not only wizards and curious priests, but rogues,
warriors and monks wishing to test their skill against the fabled dubhaimid.
Loures, unless possessing an army able to defeat the vast magnitudes of wizards
and priests, will have to turn her gaze to much less formidable prey.

As for relationship, Loures, although interested in the events of Rucesion,
would rather spend her time on other problems. The wizards of Rucesion are
valuable recruits for the court of Loures for their power and intelligence, and
as defense if the dubhaimid ever invaded. However, Loures does not go out of
its way to draw wizards to grace her lands, and most of the time regular
procedures are upheld in dealings with Rucesion.

## Mileth

Up north, beyond the Kasmanium Mountains lies the peaceful town of Mileth,
formally known as Finach. In history, Mileth has been rumored to be where the
first warrior arose. However, this is not certain, although it is known as a
fact that the foundation of Finach was around the same time as the first
warrior.

Mileth, in a rough way, can be seen as a benevolent training ground for young
Aislings. It seems to be a reoccurring trait that all Aislings somehow end up
at Mileth before their official training has begun. Not a day can pass without
seeing at least twice the number of Aislings than mundanes present in that
land. Not only does Mileth have everything necessary for an Aisling, such as a
bank, inn, smithy, and all four trainers: special arts, fighting, faery magick,
and elemental magick, but it also boasts its own crypt and the temple of the
circles for the initiation of an Aisling.

The possibility of occupation of Loures is very small. First of all, every
Aisling yet encountered shares at least some small degree of affection for
Mileth. If Loures would indeed decide to attempt to conquer that serene place,
she would no doubt find hoards of vengeful Aislings rising up in vehement
anger.

There is also no point to the occupation of Mileth. Besides a few cattle farms,
it is mainly an establishment for Aislings, many of which have grown in power
and intelligence, and drawn by the shining glory of the royal court of Loures,
have left their homes for the dazzling life of Loures.

In the case of relationship, Mileth has never posed as a threat to the reign of
Loures, and the capital city, although somewhat disturbed by the rising
emphasis on this small village, has other troubles to occupy her with. Much of
the population sees Mileth as a plain village despite its many gifts and
specialties, and Loures is no different.

## Abel

To the east of Mileth lies the trading post of Abel. As a port, Abelï¿½s main
commerce is trade, and indeed it is the trading center of the known world. From
its position alongside the sea, Abel boasts much of the main means of
transportation to the kingdoms outside of Mileth: ships. Merchants from far
away villages come to trade in the busy streets of Abel. From furs to silks, to
daggers and swords, ships arrive to pick up and drop off shipments of equipment
that manages to evade the notoriously stealthy thieves of the stone- built
port.

Abel is considered by many as a neutral city. From its businesses spanning
across sea and land, it has had a history of carefully avoiding taking sides in
any disputes between kingdoms. Thus, it is in Abel that the guilds are created
and maintained, and where the councils of the motleys and societies gather
frequently to discuss their respective duties.

In truth, if Loures attempted to conquer Abel, she might as well try to take
Mileth first. Not only will the attempted conquest wreck havoc within the
economy of all cities involved, but also it will efficiently cut off a good
portion of the income of the trade of Loures. Adding to the problem, the guilds
and motleys who depend on Abel as a center for managing their affairs will no
doubt come knocking down the gateway of Loures in barely contained anger for
disturbing the order of their organizations.

Abel is hardly even an option for takeover.

The relationship with the town of Abel is as careful and gracious as ever. The
trade with the port of Abel is essential for a good campaign and a healthy
market within Loures. As Abel is neutral most of the time, Loures has never had
any major conflict - as long as both stayed in neutral terms towards each
other.

## Undine

As history decrees it, it is in the year Danaan 2986, under the reign of the
third emperor that Loures succeeded in her conquest of Undine. Soon after the
victory, Loures placed a ban upon all weapons for fear of rebellion. Even until
now, there exists no weapons smith in Undine.

Although the reasons for the takeover is not clear, it is common knowledge that
much of the fresh water of the known world is contained within the lakes of
Undine, making Undine a precious kingdom, and even more so during droughts. The
armory also possesses a large collection of rings, including the rare spinel
ring.

From its closeness to the sea and the existence of the lakes, Undine has a rich
fishing industry. Artists of the land have traveled to Undine more than once in
hopes of finding the beautiful shells scattered across the beaches of Undine.
However, many in the past have speculated that it was not Undine that Loures
was truly after, but Suomi. Securing Undine gives Loures the best and most
efficient way of reaching Suomi, as the way through the lakes are treacherous
even in the best weather.

Opinion of Loures in Undine is very much divided. Some wish to just accept
things and go on with their own business, as all Loures normally does is impose
taxes. Others, angered by the laws forced upon them, call heatedly for a
rebellion, and others of the same opinion follow. Most notably, the rebellion
of Undine composes mostly of monks, as they need no weapons, and weapons are
hard to come by in Undine.

The relationship with Undine is at its best, shaky. Although most of the
population of the seaside town seems to grudgingly obey her rules, the
rebellion of the monks is still quite a problem. The people do not want trouble
and even though they will give only what she demands and nothing more, Loures,
for now, seems too busy within her own affairs to bother with demands for more.

## Suomi

It is not certain when exactly Loures began its interest in Suomi. Some say
that the products of Suomi interfere with the strict tariff on cherries that
Loures commands, and others say that her interest in Suomi is partly to gain
from the rich farming industry and to crush the rebellion of Undine.

Not much is clear but that north-western Suomi is strongly in the grasp of
Loures while strangely, south-eastern Suomi is left to their own devices to
plan and curse Loures in open passionate revolts.

Suomi, while mainly farmland, is by all accounts, a large village. Every few
days, there is always a small but steady stream of Aislings coming to pick the
grapes and cherries to make the prized potion called beothaich deum. Some also
say that the monk rebellion of Undine obtains their supply of food, clothing
and news from Suomi, and that they rely heavily upon the potions to rescue any
prisoners Loures sees fit to take. Also the only kingdom besides Mileth to have
its own resident special skills trainer, and the only town in which two very
prized rings, the emerald and jade rings, are forged, it has been reasoned that
Suomi is a very valuable town to have if conquered.

Relations between Suomi and Loures are at its best, muted protests, and at its
worst, war and violent protests. Suomi seems intent on going against Loures to
the best of her abilities without causing too much harm. It is not only that
Loures resent strongly the disobedience of their farming and trade laws
regarding the tax on the cherries and react with severe measures, as seen in
the case of the farmer Goran, but that there is also hints of another cause.
Many in Suomi have had strong suspicions that Loures has faintly regarded Suomi
as her property ever since the alliance of Suomi and Loures, first under the
rule of Lord Tenes, then under the alliance of Lord Ainmeal. But this
suspicion, although it seems to be wide spread, is without base and evidence.

## Loures: In Contrast

_From the examples of Undine and Suomi, it is clear that Loures has her own
problems to deal with, not to mention keeping order within her own walls.
Somehow, in the passing years, the other kingdoms of Mileth, Abel, and Rucesion
have all surpassed her in the minds of the common mundane and Aisling. This
section is based on the current situation of Loures according to the scholars
of Rucesion and Mileth. All of the kingdoms described seem to be slowly pulling
away from the capital city, whether it is out of anger and rebellion, or merely
as an effect of the changes of the age._

From its tall towers to its grand tapestries of the deeds of its glorious
kings, Loures has been the center of the known world for much of history. Past
to present, the world has evolved much from its past stages. The wars have,
thankfully, ceased for now, and even though the fight with the darkness is
still very much in effect, the dubhaimid has been repelled from our cities and
towns. In her regal court, Loures has stood these past years, straight, tall
and commanding, as we have always expected of her, but times change, and with
it, empires also change.

As you can see by the example of the rising success of Mileth, Rucesion and
Abel, with the appearance of the first Aisling, the power of Loures has waned.
It transferred from the strength and image of the royal army to the lone
Aisling, standing and fighting against the darkness. With no possible
reasonable countermeasure, and no chance of reclaiming their power by conquest
of those respective cities, it is the opinion of many that as a result, Loures
turned her anger towards Suomi and Undine.

As the chaos age descended into the Atavism age, much of the thoughts revolving
around the modern events have become Aisling centered instead of the common
praise and attention of the glory of Loures. And as the strong capital city
looks around at her surroundings, instead of being reassured, there is a strong
feeling of discomfort as she realizes that the world has changed, and in that
change, to seemingly left her behind.

With her place in the modern world and society contrasting strongly to the
image Loures transfixed on the people in history, an overwhelming desire to
reclaim that power resulted. Once dominating the steps of its peopleï¿½s destiny,
she has found to her dismay that her influence has slowly dwindled compared to
the rising light of the Aisling population. As other scholars have put it
simply, she has, among the eyes of the cruelly wronged mundanes in Undine and
Suomi, lost the right of rule.

This realization was confirmed with the appearance and discovery of the shrines
of the gods. Adding to her dismay, she found that with the exception of Suomi,
each major kingdom had a corresponding god relating to a specific Aisling path,
and in turn, fitting the role of the kingdom. Even Suomi, with its often seen
as romantic god Deoch, had its own special significance. All except Loures it
seemed. The god Gramail, although fitting for Loures, is as the faery priestess
of Suomi said, the weakest of the gods who was hardly recognized except after
the appearance of the Shrines. To the magnificent city of Loures, it was a
horrible hint of her decline ï¿½ a world in which her power did not exist.

As stated in the evaluation of each city, there is very little chance of Loures
making history by attempting to conquer. Everything that could be done without
causing undo chaos and grief has been either done, or the opportunity has
passed. And as Loures look around her at the mundane world, although she is
still the ruler, it is as though a new layer has passed on top of the world she
knew. Her need to dominate grows stronger by the minute, but that need is
trapped and runs in circles, contemplating each of the townships and the
impossibility of their conquest.

## Conclusion

Despite everything, Loures is still an essential part of this world. As Gramail
is law, Loures indeed is a symbol of order within the chaos of Temuair. From
this, we recognize that even though Loures attempts in her ways to forcibly
change the objects of her concentration to an order of her view, and her view
only, we still need the reassurance that she has provided over the years.

And Loures, in this different light, remains a representation of the grace and
royal dignity of the king and the royal court. Even though Loures is still seen
as a tyrant by many, at the same time, it strangely provides an example to the
known world of everyday order within a land encased by unfathomable darkness
just beyond the reach of the newfound light. Loures is not a kingdom dominated
by or even controlled by Aislings as in the other kingdoms, but a reminder that
the king is also mundane, and that Aislings, although the bearers of light, can
do no more than first protect the land in which they aspire to reach the sky.

_~Compiled by Aeife_
