# Of Creatures, Wood and Vale

_By Aislinn, A'mar Tsariae, in **Dark Ages**_  
_In honor of the Azure Moon .. may our order prosper_  

## Part I - Darkness: Influence

The darkness came. There is no use to dispute that fact, nor the fact that it
had devastating effects. It is the extent of its influence across that land
that in the end, truly counts.

What history and lore that has been preserved over the years describing in
detail of the happenings of the coming of the darkness revolves around
mundanes. It centers on the cities, the towns, and the provinces. It tells of
the rise and fall of empires, and the despairs and hopes of mundanes, and later
on, Aislings. There is no need to argue the fact that the whole world crumbled
under the blow of the shadow. But there, forgotten, lies other races, who too
trembled beneath the towers of the blackened sky.

It is vain and selfish to think that the darkness affected only the mundanes.
It is laughable to think that the other creatures were not impacted, and that
in our investigations of the world, we neglected to include detailed studies of
the creatures that lived in the woods and mountains. As Chadul raked his
fingers throughout the land, claiming the souls that he yearned, is it not
plausible to think too that a wolf would have howled and died, and also lost
his soul to the darkness?

Yet, despite these claims which some believe as true, and some curse as
blasphemy, there are indeed very few accounts of the changes of the creatures
within this world during the coming of the dubhaimid. There were reports of
aggressive attacks from the records of Loures, but other than that and a few
moth-eaten manuscripts, the changes of the animals and creatures coexisting
with us were passed by unnoticed. However, when an event is unnoticed, it does
not necessarily mean that the event never was. In this situation, that becomes
a fact of existence and survival.

## Part II - Transformation: Wax and wane of power

When the darkness flooded over the vales and valleys of the world, the animals,
if not in a great way, at least in a small affect felt its shadow change them.
Their instincts told them to flee, and so they did, but in the end, the object
of the fear was everywhere. It is logical to conclude then that the animals
went mad as a terrified wolf becomes enraged and insane when cornered and
trapped with no possibility of escape. There was only fear, and degrees of
fear, varying from the presence of the dubhaimid to a trace of its passing.
Some of the woodland creatures turned against each other, desperate for a shred
of sensibility that their instincts would not give them, and some fled as far
as they can, blind in the suffocating darkness.

The exact causes of the changes of the animals were not clear, but they changed
from natural predators and gentle prey to snarling beasts, trembling at every
flickering shadow. The darkness rose in such a degree that those close to the
surface were tainted beyond imagination, and those that lived below the earth,
or deep within mazes of forgotten halls and rooms were only spared from the
worst of the taint by a very small degree. They slashed and clawed and screamed
along with the mundanes, although their cries were at best, only momentarily
noticed.

Soon enough, the darkness began to manifest itself in physical forms, breeding
as though it were a disease, which preyed on the creatures of the world. The
animals, thought to have no human thoughts, felt within them the same element,
which their instincts had sought to flee from. They tried to destroy
themselves, to rid themselves of the fear and darkness they smelled within
their own bodies. Pain was merely a dull drumming, but weariness eventually
dragged them to a halt.

Out of a portion of the mad animal population, there were those that strangely
accepted and adapted to the taint coursing through their blood. Nevertheless,
they were beyond all the boundaries of their normal race, and as they were as
rabid as the rest, destroyed all that remained which did not destroy
themselves.

Although the reason for their abilities to reason and form strategies, as well
as those to command the elements are mostly accounted for a deranged state of
mind in which they found while held in the increasing stages of madness, it is
sensible to conclude and affirm in the few writings that creatures stumbling
out of the dead woodlands and land, had drank the potions and ate the spoiled
food out of an insatiable thirst and hunger. Those that had the fortune, or as
some might say, misfortune to consume enough, or to happen across one
particular kind of food, mutated and grew. Others died, but those that survived
gained perverse skills and strength not seen yet in their respective species.

Evolution thus took its hold. Those that did not possess the new powers and
strengths died at the claws of those that did. They bred, and spread as the
darkness did, eventually filling the woodlands, valleys, and abandoned
structures left by mundanes. Strangely, they stayed away from the mundanes,
perhaps out of fear of the dubhaimid that ran rampant through the streets of
the empires, or in terror of the origin of the sources from where the darkness
first came.

Eventually as light was discovered, the darkness was pushed back. With its
defeat, the darkness over the creatures lessened and dimmed. However, that only
seemed to happen in places and situations in which the habitats of the animals
are close to civilization. There is no reason to conclude that while darkness
can change the creatures for the worse, that light can not also do the same for
the better. Indeed, those closer to the element of light which is gathered
within the cities and towns grew fainter in their corrupt power. Those that
survived the change in the environment near the cities lost their control of
the elements, and those that were changed the least by the darkness regained
their innocence and seem to bear no inclination for attack.

The creatures deeper within the woods and ruins, although their power also
waned and faded, only grew weaker by lesser degrees the deeper they are. Soon,
the creatures that were considered the weakest in the worst of the darkness,
now are the greatest of the shadows, hiding within the deepest recesses of this
world.

## Part III - Darkness: Unlikely and perhaps likely fears

Perhaps the eager adventurers would notice that as they venture deeper into the
woods and forests, the mantises that seemed to loom before them moons ago would
seem to diminish in the light of the creatures known as kobolds, goblins,
shriekers, and even the gruesomefly within the ruins of Piet. In all rights,
they should not be called "animals" rather creatures or abominations from the
ages of darkness. Perhaps they were created from the animals as the taint moved
and distorted their shapes, or it might be that they were caught in the magical
doings of the dubhaimid, and most likely, those of the mad wizards and priests.
However, it is unlikely to note that they would have created themselves, or
that the dubhaimid had created them out of fancy to place them deep within the
world, although that is a guess no one has yet been able to confirm.

There has also been more disturbing interpretations arising from exploration of
the deeper woods. Houses were found among abandoned villages where goblins and
kobolds now roam and rule. Some with a darker view has implied that perhaps
priests had used mundanes as catalysts for the dark forces they conjured, or
that they themselves had used their own bodies for their experiments. In this
view, it is not the animals, which are the origin of the goblins, kobolds and
hobgoblins, but that men and women, whether mad or innocent, were their
tormented descendants. This version has been rejected out of fear that the
goblins once had logical thoughts and powers equal to that of the people today,
and the unlikely fear that if that version is indeed true, then it is equally
likely that perhaps they will, or as even darker views go, they still do.

## Part IV - Oddities: Crypt and caves

Although the woods have the most widespread range in this world, the crypts of
Mileth and the cave of the beach reachable by the southern port of Abel are
places notable in the investigation of the creatures of Temuair. In these
places, we find that sometimes even inanimate objects can hold life. Down
beneath the dank levels of the crypt, we find within that maze a foe, which
strangely resembles a chest with the legs of a furred creature peeking out from
underneath. It is hard to say whether the chest is merely a cover for the
creature, or simply a part of it, as no one has yet tried to uncover it during
battles. Still, it is fascinating to note that even though there is no
indication that it has any eyes all, it appears to hear, see, feel, and maybe
even smell as normally as a creature can.

Within the sandy walls of the cave upon the beach, there appears to be
creatures not unlike balls of fur bouncing about. However, they punch and hit
much harder than fur ever can. Again, like the chests, they are alerted to your
presence in an uncanny way, bouncing ever closer to unfortunately to send you
to your doom. As they seem "cute" to some, it is highly unlikely that the
dubhaimid created them ( some has suggested that the dubhaimid has a twisted
sense of humor? ), and it leaves the option that it either was an aftershock or
effect of the darkness, or that it was a dark priest's spell which backfired or
succeeded beyond his or her wildest expectations, depending on who you ask.

Perhaps in years to come, when our warriors and Aislings explore further, we
might have more insight into these strange creatures. One thing is sure
however, and that is that they are alive, and us ignorant and unknowing of
exactly why.

## Part V - Beyond: Dreams of creatures

Although dwarves, faeries, and even the sylvan horses are only whispered
legends that any would yet have to see, it has been said that indeed if they
are aggressive, it would most likely be that we have evaded into their world
without permission nor favor. It is hard to believe that they possess the same
darkness which covered the animals and creatures and inspired such revulsion
and disgust as the gruesomefly upon Aislings. They would be considered above
such judgements, but only perhaps until one of our race truly encounters one
again.

The other creatures, which lay rumored, are those that are reputed to lie at
the very bottom of the ruins such as the crypt, and that which rests in the
deepest vale of the forests, caves and mountains. It is suspected that they
were lesser entities of darkness, and even though I have hesitated to use the
word "evil", they were undoubtedly so. Perhaps they were of such revulsion, or
maybe because the dubhaimid, when they came, looked down upon them with such
disdain that they banished them into the darkest valleys and deepest halls.
This, however, would fully bring to mind the enormous power of the dubhaimid
for them to look down upon such power, and this is indeed not a thing that one
would gladly contemplate upon.

And with this closing thought, I lay down this manuscript. Perhaps as time
passes, these thoughts might disperse and with them replace ones of better
comfort. And as in each deeper vale and grove of the woods, those creatures
that held the most power become placid and weak, and are replaced with those
whose strength towers above the rest, it is inevitable that we would grow as
the foes we face pass and increase in power. Perhaps the weaker creatures in
those vales recognize in some dim way the superior creatures, and leave to them
to attack and to roar as they have done in the lighter vales. And that one day
the greatest of the creatures would finally realize in vain that we indeed, in
time, have become greater than they have.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original may be viewed at http://darkages.com/community/phi/Aislinn_Creature.html .
```
