# The Truth of the Aosda Circle under Loures

_By Alaister in **Dark Ages**_

Aislings your days are numbered! The anaman pact will be reborn and Chadul will
come again! Until recently I was like you dutifully fighting back the darkness
and actually believing that we might win. Then I discovered the Aosda circle
and performed the rite of Stone. For all of you who don't know loures castle is
built on an ancient site of power, the site of the original conix stone. Before
of course I did not know this. I knew of the conix fragments and I had heard
that a place existed underneath the castle where they could be traded for
knowledge. So carrying some of the stones with me I went in search of this
circle. Slipping through a hole in the floor underneath a bed I found a dungeon
and eventually the Aosda circle. As I soon learned, however, the circle was not
the oldest nor the original source of power at this site. You see after
performing the ritual I was granted knowledge - knowledge first of the conix
stones and the circle and later of the future. As we all know the conix stones
were once a part of a larger structure. When used by the gods the fragments can
summon creatures but no one really knows what the original stone could do. It
has been said that the stones only allow the gods to manipulate their powers in
a different way. I am here to tell you that this is false the summoning power
is in the stones themselves but since they are fragmented they are weaker and
so the power of the Gods has to combine with the stones for them to work. When
the stones were together they were immensly powerful they needed only the
thoughts of mankind to operate and during this time it brought forth a terrible
power a power of which Chadul is only a shadow. It then took control of the
stone so that it might not bring forth anything else out of the imagination of
mankind. Before it could complete it's take over however the Aosda discovered
it and the place from which its power originated. And so they placed a circle
on it and performed the first conjunction. The aosda combined the power of fire
and compassion and created a power of light and love. This ritual broke the
stone into pieces and scatered it to the far ends of Temuair. The first power
however fooled them for though they thought they had they hadn't destroyed all
of the stone a core of it remained. Using the power in this core and drawing
power from the circle, the barrier that keeps it out of our realm, it began
reform itself. Chadul and the dubhamaid and even sigrois are reflections, but
only reflections, of this power. That is why Sigrois can summon even before the
stones were discovered, he has accesses to the core of the original stone that
remains under loures. The power of light however did not sit still, with the
help of Deoch who was once part of the dark power they repeated the ritual of
the first conjuction and re-banished part of the first power. They were not
strong enough however to banish it all sigrois and a scattering of the
dubhamaid remained. All this the circle told me when I dropped off my first
batch of Conix fragments. Having to know more I found and dropped off some
more. The power is not going to be as stupid the second time. When it comes
again it will come at its full power. When this happens there is nothing in
this world that can stop it. The power of light that the aosda created was
never strong enough and it weakend itself tremendously by reforming the seal.
In 200 years enough of the power from the seal well have been absorabed and the
power will break through. We might be able to hinder it but we can not stop it.
We do however have another choice. When we drop off the conix fragments here
they are remelded to the remaining core of the conix stone. This increases the
base that the power has to draw from and will hasten its entry into our world,
which will happen however, regardless of our actions. Most of the world will be
destroyed when the power returns but those who have helped it will be kings and
weild power the likes of which they can only imagine. I know which path I am
going to choose. Find me and perhaps we can go down it together.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original may be viewed at http://darkages.com/community/phi/Alaister_Loures.html .
```
