# A Treatise on Lost Forms of Magic

_by Arachne of Mileth, Wizard Adept_

_On one of my many trips throughout Temuair, I happened upon an odd mundane in
Suomi. This mundane was clothed in a simple robe of an unidentifiable black
material, and wore a pointy hat of the same black material, with a long veil to
cover it's face. Seeing this odd creature, I stopped and conversed with it.
After several seconds, I deduced that this creature was quite insane, as it
spoke only in sing-song rhyme. I gathered no useful information from the
creature at first, but when I mentioned my recent apprenticeship as a wizard,
the creature froze. He reached inside his robe, pulled out a black bound book,
and handed it to me. I accepted the gift, and as I reached for my purse to pay
for it, the creature began chanting words of magic I had never heard before.
Upon the completion of his chant, his form shimmered into that of a wolf! With
a quick bark, the creature turned and bounded off into the forest, leaving me
with a stunned look, and a black book Upon opening the book, and reading
therein, I learned startling information on magic._

In the days before the discovery of the elements of light and darkness, only
four elements existed; the elements of earth, wind, fire, and water. Before the
discovery of magic, the elements danced out escapades on the night sky, or
buffeted young souls on sweet zephyrs, waves, rising hills, or warm gushes of
harmless fire ((Legend of Hy-Brasyl)). With the passing of the elders of Hy-
brasyl, and the arrival of human magic, the elements were harnessed to man's
will, creating spectacular feats of sheer will. These mystics could summon
mighty lightning storms from the sky, or huge infernos of raging fire. But, as
with all things human, these spectacular feats soon became mundane, an everyday
common effect that any charlatan could duplicate. So, a few enterprising
mystics set out to make themselves known, by discovering new forms of magic. It
is these same mystics, that through trial and error, discovered both the
elements of Darkness and Light. However, before these tremendous breakthroughs
were made, many of the mystics searched into expanding the uses of the
elements.

_Upon further study and translation of the strange book, I was excited to find
traces of the lost magics!! Unfortunately, the means to creating these spells
were not listed in the book, but the effects these spells had are listed
herein. Hopefully, with time, these lost magics can be recovered._

With the specialization of magic, and the discovery of the element of Darkness,
many mystics were corrupted, and created spells of great destruction and
terror. By decree of the elders of Loures, the means to create these spells
will be obliterated from any record, as will the any research into the power
words of these spells. Listed below are the invocation and effects of the
spells of the ancients

_Cein Chanmic_ (Distant Sight) With the use of this spell, a wizard of
advanced power may view events transpiring across Temuair. A pool of water or
small crystal must be used in conjunction with this spell.

_Bac Athar_ (Hinder Air): By the use of this evil spell, a wizard attempts to
stop the breathing of a creature, thereby killing it instantaeneously.

Variations: Bac Athar Lamh (Hinder Air All)

_Bac Sal_ (Hinder Water) This malicious spell absorbs the liquid from the
body of the target, causing tremendous damage through dehydration.

Variations: Bac Athar Lamh (Hinder Water All)

_Bac Srad_ (Hinder Fire): Perhaps the least horrid of the _Bac_ spells, this
spell attempts to freeze a creature by drawing all of the heat out of it's
body.

Variations: Bac Athar Lamh (Hinder Fire All)

_Leantainn [Sal/Athar/Srad/Creag]_ (Pursuing Element): This ingenious spell
causes a continuous strike of elemental power on a selected target. This spell
will repetitively strike an opponent until the caster runs out of manna, the
caster moves, or the creature perishes.

_Beag Cabhag_ (Small Haste): This spell allows the wizard to double the
movement speed of any creature, thereby increasing it's number of attacks,
chance to dodge, and movement rate.

Variations: Cabhag (Haste)

Cabhag Lamh (Haste All [Allies])

_Beag Leasg_ (Small Laziness): By means of this magic, a wizard halves the
movement speed of any creature, thereby decreasing it's number of attacks,
chance to dodge, and movement rate.

Variations: Leasg (Laziness)

Cabhag Lamh (Slow All [Enemies])

_Binn Bogha-Frois_ (Melodious Rainbow): This ingenious spell creates a swirling
vortex of rainbow color light, which radiates a soothing melody, causing all
nearby hostile creatures to become placid.

_Gramaich Bean_ (Holding Touch): Casting this spell will allow the wizard to
paralyze the next creature it successfully hits for an indefinite period of
time

Variations: Beag Gramaich (Small Holding) [Ranged]

Gramaich (Holding) [Ranged]

Gramaich Lamh (Hold All) [Ranged]

This concludes a partial listing of the knowledge of the ancients. This book
shall be entrusted to the Librarian of Loures, as an addition to his grand
collection of knowledge from throughout the land.

_Upon turning to the next page of the book, I was horrified to discover that
the rest of the pages had been ripped from the book! Now, with only this small
amount of information to go on, I set out on my quest to discover the means of
these lost magics. Hopefully, my treatise will inspire other wizards to help me
in my search._

_Submitted Humbly,_  
_Arachne of Mileth_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original may be viewed at http://darkages.com/community/phi/Arachne_Magic.html .
```
