# An Analytical Study on the Wood Goblin Social Structure

_By Brightblade in **Dark Ages**_  

Many of you may have seen them. Theyre ugly, stinky, mottled green skin
creatures called the wood goblin or goblin for short. Some love them, some hate
them and most of you probably see them as nothing more than a pest that has to
be eliminated no matter what. In the years of research and study, I have slay
countless goblins and in the process observed (in secrecy) their daily life
functions as well as their crude (but functional) society.

The government system of the wood goblins, or goblins as I shall call them from
now on, are centered on a paternal figure. They have a tribal society, which
resembles very much the tribal government of humans 10,000 years ago. In this
paternal society, female goblins have no place but is delegated to menial task
of providing food, foraging, caring for the young (baby goblins are called cubs
or goblings), and of course reproduction. The highest position a female goblin
can attain is as the tribal chiefs wife, she holds no real power over the
warriors but through her husbands channel, and she commands respect by other
member goblins of the tribe. The goblin chief usually has multiple females
serving him as his mistress. The tribal chief is usually the biggest,
strongest, smartest (for a goblin) and meanest (not to mention the smelliest)
goblin in the tribe. Contest on tribal chieftain is settled by combat to the
death. The tribal chief has absolute power over everything within the domain of
his tribe. A circle of goblin shamans that he consults with quite frequently
then assists him. The goblin chief usually led raiding parties which can be as
large as over 100 goblins, but this is quiet rare as big armies are sometimes
hard to control. The tribe's warrior class backs the chief's power. Warriors
commands more respect than anyone else except for the chief and his shamans.

The tribal warriors are selected from birth and train till they are ripe of age
(around 12 years), where they will need to pass a test of coming of age. The
test is a secret handed down from generation to generation and a goblin will
keep that secret even to his grave. The training for tribal warriors are crude
and often brutal, they are taught how to fight using various wooden spear and
blades, and sometimes a lucky one or two can get to train with a stolen steel
sword or other weapons. Mortality rate in warrior is high and many are not
expected to live up to 30 years of age due to sickness, poor medical treatment
and getting slaughtered in battle by adventurers (a.k.a. Aislings). Stronger
warriors often bully the weaker goblins; they order them around or hit them
whenever they wish. There is no justice system to speak of as all civil matters
are brought to the tribal chief or his shamans for judgement, and more often
than not, their judgements are often unfair.

The tribal shamans are often selected from cubs, which bear the mark of the
shaman; these marks are black crescent moon shaped mole that appears on the
forehead of the child. The child is then separated from his parents to live
with the conclave of shamans. Shaman cannot be a female, and strangely enough
the mark does not appear on female goblins. Young goblin shamans are trained as
herbalist, and on voodoo magic as well as elemental based magic. Goblin shamans
get to live the longest as they have rudimentary knowledge of healing and
magical brews that artificially prolong their life. The average life expectancy
of a goblin shaman is around 80 years.

A tribes power is measured on how many warriors it has and how big their domain
is and how many successful raids it has conducted on the hoo-mans. The more
warriors they have, the more powerful the whole tribe becomes and the more
territory they occupy. Tribal wars are frequent and brutal, often ending with
the death of a tribal chief or the total annihilation of the less powerful
tribe. Upon the death of a chieftain in battle with another tribe, a successor
is selected, if none suitable are found, the defeated tribe is assimilated by
the larger tribe along with its previous territory and all of its loot and
treasures (if any). Goblins are an evil and cowardly lot by nature, but it is
not unheard of warriors bravely sacrificing themselves to overwhelm the
defenses of their enemies.

Goblins communicate with each other via a series of snarls, grunts and growls
forming a series of human-language-sounding noise, but some can speak broken
human language especially when trying to insult or taunt their hated enemies.
Most tribes have their own traditional language.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Brightblade_Goblin.html .
```
