# On the Elemental Nature of Politics

_by Cazbrileth in **Dark Ages**_  

_An essay concerning the application of the elemental theory to the science of politics_  

# Foreword

Ever since the first aisling spark, elementalists have made breakthrough
discoveries concerning the elements of Temuair and Medenia. Only recently,
however, have scholars applied the elemental theory to concepts beyond their
use in wizardry and combat; although the Aosdans knew for ages that the
universe was constructed of the elements that their wizards controlled, the
disappearance of their race has resulted in an immense loss of knowledge.
Perhaps some ancient scholar had already come to the realization that the
political societies of the majestic, soaring cities of the Aosda were also the
work of the elements.

The work of the elements? Of course. It is quite simple to explain.

The universe; that is to say, all of existence, is constructed from the eight
elements that we know of: Srad (fire), Sal (water), Creag (earth), Athar
(wind), Dhubh(Darkness), and Deo (Light); recent additions to the elemental
theory, discovered in Medenia, include Metal and Nature. It is easy to
understand that physical things are constructed of various mixtures of these
elements; they exist in purest form as the features that they are named after
(the pure form of Sal, for example, would be found in an ocean, a pond, or
drinking cup, as water).

Let us then apply the elemental theory to things of a metaphysical nature. In
this case, we will be examining political trends and their relations to the
elements that we have just mentioned. As the reader will come to understand,
each of the elements lends themselves to a certain political trend, granting to
it its characteristics; and, as we can imagine, its strengths and flaws. We
will therefore address each element one by one and, through the process of
reasoning, identify which form of political establishment it grants itself to.



## The Four Basic Elements

The four basic nadurra are the most common to be found in Temuair and Medenia.
As such, one can expect that the political establishments that are governed by
these elements are among the most widespread. This is especially true of
civilized societies whose scholars have a thorough understanding of the
elemental theory.


### Sal, the Republic

> _"Sal is fluid, accepting. It is enduring and immortal. When opposed it gives
> way and envelopes. It smothers and drowns, sometimes with kindness, sometimes
> with cruelty. Sal reflects whatever looks into it."_
>  
> \-Dar, Dark Wizard of Mileth


Sal is present in city-states, nations, or villages that follow a pattern of
government whereby the common people form, usually through some sort of elected
delegates, the governing body. Like the mighty oceans, a republic is governed
by its own will; in a political sense, this is the will of the nation. It is
slow and indecisive, but mighty all the same; one some days, it will be calm,
and on others it will be storming with passion. The republic is a stable form
of government as assuredly as the seas are enduring. Like the citizens who form
its foundation, it can be both good and wicked. A republic is difficult to
overcome, but may give way under sufficient pressure from the other nadurra.

### Srad, the Dictatorship

> _"Srad is hot, quick and dry. It begins things. It has no staying power.”_
>  
> \- _Dar, Dark Wizard of Mileth_

Srad is most present when a leader, unrestricted by legal bindings or political
adversaries, rules over a state. Like fire, a dictatorship is sparked by some
catalyst and grows in ferocity and strength, depleting its opposition, and
finally dying out to leave a ruin of ash and coal. Fueled by political
instability and snuffed out when its support wanes, the life of such a
political establishment is never long. It is aggressive, consuming, and
jealous; the destruction that it is sure to bring is feared by all sane folk. A
dictatorship is unstable and flighty in the face of strong opposition from the
other elements.

### Creag, the Monarchy

> _"Creag is stable. It is slow to move.
> It is, therefore, confident and traditional."
>  
> \- _Dar, Dark Wizard of Mileth_

Creag favors nations which are ruled over by a sovereign king or queen.
Kingdoms, as the ancient earth, are based on a rigid social structure where all
know where their allegiance is to be owed. Slow, stable, and strong, the
monarchies of Temuair are not easily uprooted by other political systems. The
legitimacy and conventions central to the rule of kings are grounded in the
annals of history and tradition, as are the mountains that form the spine of
Temuair. Monarchies are content with the status quo, skeptic of social change,
and often unwilling to shift in the face of progress, instead putting all faith
in the traditional order. Only erosion by the other elements can, over time,
weaken its might.


### Athar, the Empire

> _"Athar is fast and nimble. It is often cruel, while eating away.”_
>
> \- _Dar, Dark Wizard of Mileth_

Athar manifests itself in the form of pompous realms that have ascended beyond
the monarchial tradition to a state that, through military might, secures its
position by seeking to dominate others. Like the heavens, the ambition of an
emperor or empress knows no bounds; it seeks to extend beyond the horizon,
always expanding its influence. An empire is glorious and mighty, like thunder
in the skies displaying its prestige with shock and awe. Like athar, the
empires of history are decisive, strong-willed, and dominating. The greatest
enemy of any empire is the loss of its glory and might, often due to internal
problems, leaving it helpless before an assault of the other elements.

## The Two Greater Elements

The greater elements of nature were discovered much later than the other
traditional elements. Their relationship with the four basic elements, as well
as the Medenian elements, is unique; similarly, they represent different types
of political trends.

### Dhubh, Anarchy

Dhubh represents a lack of light; thus, when no real form of government exists,
it is present in the form of anarchy. Without reason or order to stabilize
society, the people become chaotic and, as a whole, descend into barbarism.
Books are burnt, knowledge is lost, and intellectual achievements fade into the
pages of history; all but a few forsake enlightenment in pursuit of earthly
gains. Anarchy is overcome by the emergence of one of the other elements if it
wields the strength to defeat the mighty darkness and replace its emptiness
with something whole.

### Deo, the Sophocracy, Theocracy, or Magocracy

Deo owes itself to a number of political structures that are united by their
respect for enlightened rulers. Whether in the form of a council of wise
individuals (Sophocracy), members of the clergy owing their allegiance to the
gods (Theocracy), or powerful mages (Magocracy), these intellectualist trends
of rule value order, stability, and the application of perceived philosophical
truths to better society as a whole. It contrasts sharply with anarchy, opening
the doors to a golden age of scholarly and spiritual achievement. These
political structures are overcome by the other elements when passion drives the
governed to throw aside the strict reason championed by the enlightened.

## The Two Medenian Elements

The Medenian elements (so named because of their traditional use in magical
belts found on the continent) of Metal and Nature represent, respectively,
stronger forms of the Srad and Athar elements; that is to say, the elemental
reactions of these elements are amplified when compared with their basic
counterparts. This also holds true when assessing their characteristics, and
therefore the characteristics of the political trends that they lend themselves
to.


### Metal, the Stratocracy

Metal lends itself to states that are directly operated by military groups. As
opposed to dictatorships whereby power might be secured or wielded by soldiers,
astratocracy is a state under the total administration of the military. Such
institutions, as the unyielding metal from which they derive their nature, are
wrought by strength of arm and will; force is used as the universal method of
securing order and stability. In the face of opposition, it proves itself to be
a strong adversary. Although difficult to break, it can be overcome by a
powerful assault of other elements.


### Nature, the Chiefdom

Nature appears in the form of uncivilized chiefdoms that are typical of goblins
and kobolds, but are known to have been the form of rule for the earliest of
humans. The fact that most scholars do not consider a chiefdom to be a true
political state is a testament to its wild, savage ; chiefdoms, like nature,
are loosely arranged and scorn the constraints that come with order. Chiefdoms
are typically led by the greatest warriors or shamans in a tribe, securing
their reign by brute force. As is fitting for a form of rule spawned by nature
itself, its rulers place their faith in the primal virtues of strength, honor,
and individualism. A chiefdom is firmly grounded in traditional beliefs and
legends, and is often reluctant to accept new ideas, particularly regarding
civilization. This form of rule, priding itself on primal strength, can only be
deposed by an element that can prove itself the stronger.



## Regarding the Fas Theory
> _"Every element is weak against itself.  
> This is the cycle of the elements:  
> Srad fas Athar. Athar fas Creag.  
> Creag fas Sal. Sal fas Srad."  
>  
> \- _Dar, Dark Wizard of Mileth_


The fas theory implies that an element, when made to react with other elements,
will either have a “strong” or “weak” effect. Any self-respecting aisling
adventurer has a basic knowledge of the elements; the power of dhubh is often
employed during hunting expeditions, for example. As we have seen, the
political trends stemming from the various elements carry the characteristics
of those elements; similarly, we can apply the fas theory to those political
trends. They do not, however, work exactly the same as raw, physical
interactions.

In a political sense, the fas theory does not actively apply itself; that is to
say, a republic will not have any tangible advantage over a dictatorship, nor
will anarchy have some sort of advantage over the other elements. The fas
theory manifests itself by opposition; all political ideologies oppose at least
one other for a multitude of reasons, and in that sense, they are ideological
enemies. Rather than a physical reaction, then, our interactions between the
elements come in the form of discourse and sentiment. It is quite fitting, of
course, as this is the very nature of politics. Let us now examine the tenets
of the fas theory and apply it to our discussion.


* **Srad fas Athar**. A dictatorship, most ironically, fuels its rise to power
  with the fear of a tyrant.


* **Athar fas Creag**. An empire seeks to overcome the weakness of a monarchial
  system, opting for absolutism rather than sharing power with nobles or
  customs.

* **Creag fas Sal**. A kingdom opposes the radical change and social disruption
  advocated by a republic, its greatest enemy.


* **Sal fas Srad**. A republic seeks to secure the rights and freedoms of the
  citizens, therefore fiercely opposing the rule of a dictator.


* **Dhubh fas Srad, Athar, Creag, Sal, Metal, Nature, and Deo.* Anarchy seeks
  to supplant all forms of government.


* **Deo fas Dhubh**. Enlightened rule fears the decline of statehood into chaos
  and the decline of civilized ideals. It brings order where there is chaos.


* **Dhubh, Srad, Athar, Creag, Sal, Metal, and Nature fas Deo.** Governing
  ideologies in general will detest the idealism of a sophocratic state,
  instead coveting their own pragmatic and time-tested forms of government.


* **Nature fas Creag**. A chiefdom opposes the strict order and traditions
  found in a monarchy: peerages, lines of succession, and vassal fiefdoms. It
  scoffs at the decline of primal values and the political weakness of such a
  system.

* **Metal fas Athar**. A stratocracy, being a more extensive cousin of
  dictatorship, plays itself as a savior against the tyrannical rule often
  associated with empires.

* **Sal fas Metal**. The republic strongly opposes rule by force and coercion,
  as it does the oppression of civil liberties.

* **Srad fas Nature**. Dictatorships prey on the fear of barbarism and decline
  of social and civil life under a leader who rules by strength.

## Concluding Notes

The ancient Aosdic scholars believed that the philosopher-kings of their time
were best suited to rule; this is because, as they argued, a philosopher was
aware of certain metaphysical truths and could govern a city truthfully and not
as in a dream. The fall of their race is unfortunate, as is the loss of their
immense knowledge; let us therefore reacquaint ourselves with universal truths
such as the elemental theory and, while not shying away from pragmatics,
attempt to understand things from such a point of view.

A politician armed with a philosophical knowledge of politics will have a
certain and considerable advantage over one who does not. They will understand
the nature, characteristics, and tendencies of political trends, as well as
their interactions with other ideologies; while a farmer may still grow crops
with a weak knowledge of the harvest cycle, their yield will not be as
plentiful as one who does.

And what does this say of human nature? It can be suggested that, as with
political trends, human temperament gravitates towards the elements; for we can
see that many men and women rule themselves as a dictatorship, and some as a
chiefdom, and others still as anarchy. The elements, after all, are the
building blocks from which the universe is built.

The point must be conceded, then, that the wisest politician must be one
educated thoroughly in the elements; a wizard, indeed. This is not to say that
a great wizard will make the greatest ruler (if we are to assess one’s rule
based on the state of the nation or the people living therein), but that they
will be a skilled politician and diplomat.

But, of course, one need not be a wizard to understand the elements…

_Cazbrileth Adonluth_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://milethlibrary.weebly.com/phil-cazbrileth-treatise-on-the-elemental-nature-of-politics.html .
```

