# The Energy/Magic Theory  

_Formulated and Compiled By Chupaca_

## Table of Contents  
  
* [1.0 Introduction](#introduction)  
  * [1.1 About the Author](#about-the-author)  
  * [1.2 Influences](#influences)  
  
* [2.0 Thesis](#thesis)  
  * [2.1 Exploration of Relations](#exploration-of-relations)
  * [2.2 Projected Theorems](#projected-theorems)  
  
* [3.0 Energy](#energy)  
  * [3.1 What is Energy?](#what-is-energy)  
  * [3.2 Properties of Energy](#properties-of-energy)  
  * [3.3 Control and Use of Energy](#control-and-use-of-energy)  
  * [3.4 Relation of Energy to "Magic"](#relation-of-energy-to-magic)  
  
* [4.0 Anti-Energy](#anti-energy)
  * [4.1 What is Anti-Energy?](#what-is-anti-energy)  
  * [4.2 Properties of Anti-Energy](#properties-of-anti-energy)  
  * [4.3 Relation of Energy to Anti-Energy](#relation-of-energy-to-anti-energy)  
  * [4.4 Asides](#asides)  
  
* [5.0 Effects of Energy on The Elements](#effects-of-energy-on-the-elements)  
  * [5.1 Violent Reactions](#violent-reactions)  
  * [5.2 Correlations](#correlations)  

* [6.0 Conclusion](#conclusion)  

# Introduction

Welcome, friend, come! Sit and be comfortable for I have much to say and
you must be prepared to listen. An open mind is a comprehensive mind, so make
sure you are quite attentive as you read through the following pages. If all
is well and well is what all is, then I shall begin.

## About the Author

How-now, what is there to tell? I suppose the slightest background will
suffice for there is still much work to be done and many ideas to be scripted.
I am Chupaca, one which you would call a wizard of sorts. I began my journey
as a wizard when my spirit became enthralled in the fine workings of what my
mentor called Magic. I grew in skill as in interest as time went by, and of
the elements of Fire, Earth, Wind and Water, I found the former to "agree with
me" more than the last three. It is difficult to say why, yet we shall discuss
this matter in more depth when the time comes.

## Influences

It was because of the mysteries behind the use of Magic that I started
my investigation into the topic of what, shall we say, makes it work. It is
for this reason I am writing this document; so that others may read it and
gain the knowledge I sought for what seemed like eternity. And above all, it
is for that reason that I wish this document to travel farther than I ever
could, allowing other wizards to experience the epiphany that comes with
knowledge of the utmost mysteries. I am driven by an unknown force to continue
writing when my body knows it should stop... Someone, something, is going
against me on this journey, and I intend to squeeze the last bit of knowledge
out of my mind and transfer it to this paper before that being prevents me
from doing so.

# Thesis

The thesis is what I would like to call the destination of the
investigation. It is the unasked question which I search to answer via any
means presentable. The question at hand could best be phrased: "What are
Energy and Magic, and what do they have to do with each-other?" Well, continue
on and you will find out in due time what the answer is. Don't be afraid to do
a little extra thinking on the side; it is encouraged, in fact, to allow your
mind to flourish and feed on the knowledge you see here.

## Exploration of Relations

What we will call Energy does in fact have much to do with what we call
Magic. In this paper, Energy will be discussed and it's solid, mundane
counterpart "Anti-Energy" will be discussed as well. The reactions and
relations between these two objects result in Magic. A wizard such as myself
would say that Magic is their weapon, yet it is not. It is merely a tool with
which to interact with Energy. Through Magic, Energy can be manipulated and
the inverse is just as true. The skill in and art of manipulating Energy is
the Magician's real power. This will also be discussed further on.

## Projected Theorems

This section will be devoted to outlining the specific events which I
expect are occurring even as we speak, and how I will attempt to define and
explain them. The first of these is the presence of Energy. What is it, and,
more importantly, where is it. The next is Energy's counterpart, Anti-Energy.
What is IT, and how does it fit into this puzzle. The last is the theory of
Magic, or rather the effects that energy can have on nature and the elements.
These three points will be the main subject of this writing henceforth.

# Energy

      As you may have already deferred from the name, this section will indeed
contain the majority of this paper's details on Energy. In it will be
discussed what Energy is and what it is like. Also will be a slight inferrence
to Magic in the final section, which will be detailed later on. Read forth,
then, and absorb the knowledge I present to you.

## What Is Energy?

      What is Energy? That is a very good question. To explain precisely what
Energy is would be to perform a true miracle. I can only speculate on it and
refer to it via metaphor and spoken figures. Thus it would be reasonable to
think of Energy as a line. Not just one line though, many lines. Thousands of
lines, like threads, which stretch from one end of the horizon straight
through to the other. Whatever they cannot go through, such as non-living
objects, they merely circumvene. These threads all behave differently. Each
thread has its own vibraton... a slow hum which resonates at a set note on a
set scale. However on this scale there are but six notes, and although each
thread varies slightly, the vibrations can be divided and grouped into six
categories. These categories cannot be given names as of yet, so we shall call
them One through Six. Categories One through Six contain an infinite number of
threads of energy. These threads can exist in the same spot at the same time
as long as no other category of thread attempts to cross them. Energy is, in
short, unharnessed power that lingers everywhere yet cannot be seen or touched
for it is in your mind that energy exists.

## Properties of Energy

The properties of energy vary slightly in categories One through Four,
yet shift dramatically from categories Five and Six. In categories One through
Four, the vibrations are for the most-part simultaneous. It is the size of
these vibrations which intrigue me. The four primary categories could be
compared to a compass, with category One being North, Two being East, Three
being South, and Four begin West. The reactions are what could be expected of
opposites, yet come from adjacency, meaning that when a thread from group One
(hereafter referred to as N) and a thread from group Two (E) cross, the
reaction is violent. If a N were to cross with an S or a W, however, the
result is much less severe, yet still somewhat shaking. The two last groups,
Five and Six, are complete opposites. Five represents what, on a compass of
six directions, would be "up", and Six (conversely) represents "down". There
is a thin boundary between the two groups, meaning that in some occasions it
may be crossed if the manipulator has enough knowledge of what he is about to
perform. In this following table, which I have created for the purpose of
orderly presenting the reactions of the groups with one-another, the patterns
in reactions are somewhat visible:  
  
| Group Examined | Order of Reaction (violent to non-violent) |
|----------------|--------------------------------------------|
| N              | E,S,W                                      |
| E              | S,W,N                                      |
| S              | W,N,E                                      |
| W              | N,E,S                                      |
  
("Up" and "Down" do not quite fit in this table, for they are different yet
similar, mild and violent at the same time.)

## Control and Use of Energy

      Man has always sought and always will seek ways to control that which he
cannot quite understand and bend it to his will. Thus the way of the Magician
was to study the technique of controlling Energy, or "plucking strings" if you
will. This metaphor is more true than not when referring to the initial
example of how Energy was described (bundles of threads and strings). To
manipulate Energy is to know how to coax the threads into splitting from their
bundles and doing your bidding. One is able to do this through concentration
and by the use of one's mind. The mind is another mystery, perhaps one I shall
write about in due time, yet for now suffice it to say that the mind also has
its would-be "threads", and by weaving the threads of one's mind with the
threads of Energy, a matrix is produced that allows the user to capture the
loose Energy for a moment and do with it as he pleases. All Energy does not
serve the same purpose however, such is the effect that the vibrations of the
threads have. In order to weave a matrix out of the threads of one's mind and
the threads of loose Energy, one must harmonize the vibrations of their mind's
threads with that of the Energy they wish to harness. This is a main reason
why Magicians are typically limited to one group of energy threads, otherwise
called the Wizard's domain. As I had said earlier, my domain is Fire. The
vibrations of my mind's threads were already harmonized with those of group
Two (the Fire element, which we shall discuss later), and thus I was easily
able to manipulate those threads. Rogues are somewhat adept at handling the
Sixth group, yet to a very limited extent. Priests are quite able to command
the Fifth group of threads, and they do so with grace and prowess. I have even
heard word of a Priest who was so masterful of the weaving of matrices that he
had successfully woven one out of the Sixth group of threads, considering how
alike they are, and was able to devastate an entire onslaught of foes in a
single mind blast. Quite a useful talent to have when you are commanding that
much power. On I go to now discuss how related Magic and Energy really are.

## Relation of Energy to Magic

      Now, to truly explain exactly how Magic ties in with Energy. All through
the previous paragraphs of this paper I have hinted towards what you now must
surely know. Energy is Magic, and Magic is Energy. The sole difference between
the two, is that Magic is Energy in it's harnessed state, when the controller
has captured the energy and is in the position to have it do his bidding. Upon
weaving of a matrix, the web takes on a vibration of its own. This vibration,
a melange of that of the caster's mind and of the Energy threads, capture
vital elemental energy. This is what causes a magician's summonings to take on
the form of striking Lighting, raging Fire, violent Earthquakes or Water
tempests. By modifying one's mind threads before weaving the matrix, it is
possible to increase the potential damage of the elemental assault. By
performing other modifications during the summoning, it is possible to direct
the attack in more than one direction or at more than one target. These skills
take many years of practice and training, and even I unfortunately have yet to
learn the secrets of most of the Magical procedures involved in performing the
more grandiose summonings of the elements.

# Anti-Energy

      Anti-energy... it sounds like it must be a horrid thing, yet indeed it
is not. It is merely the sum of all places and locations and times in which
there is an absence of Energy. You may have wondered, once, why you couldn't
set fire to a wood door or cast a spell through a wall. The very simple truth
is just that: simple. Energy conducts energy. Where there is an absence of
Energy, no additional Energy, including Energy in the form of Magic, may pass.
Anti-Energy is present mostly in dead objects, however the term dead does not
encompass inanimate objects that have a soul. Such are the Dubhaimed, cursed
things of which I refuse to speak any longer. I will now attempt to express
the characteristics of Anti-Energy when acted upon.

## What is Anti-Energy?

      There is not much to say about what Anti-Energy is that has not yet been
said, so I shall, in lieu of wasting more time, simply form a simple list of
the important characteristics which define Anti-Energy.  
  
Firstly, Anti-Energy is the absence of Energy.  
  
Secondly, Anti-Energy is usually present in non-living or mundane or, commonly
called, DEAD objects.  
  
Thirdly, Anti-Energy cannot exist in the same location as Energy at one given
time.  
  
Fourth and lastly, Anti-Energy cannot inhabit a being or object if that object
is currently occupied by a soul, considering souls consist of Energy in its
purest form.

## Properties of Anti-Energy

      For Energy to pass through Anti-Energy, it must indtead go around it. It
is quite possible to avoid an obstacle by "hooking" the matrix, yet this
severely decreases efficiency and accuracy. Over too long a distance, indeed
if a matrix must hook around too long a distance, the matrix will fail and
simply dissipate, causing no effect to your target. Anti-Energy cannot be the
target of a Magical procedure, simply for the fact that the threads of an
Anti-Energy object do not resonate or vibrate at all. It is possible, through
great amounts of concentration, to spark and kindle a vibration in an object
of Anti-Energy. That object would then cease to be Anti-Energy and become what
is referred to as blessed or enchanted. The threads vibrate at a queer, odd,
and abject resonance, which may, can, and usually does result in some form of
positive effect to the user of the object, providing the object can be used.
Sometimes an enchanted ring may have been operated upon in the wrong manner
and become cursed, encompassing vibrations from the Sixth group in its
formerly-Anti-Energy fibers. These are always malevolent yet can sometimes be
persuaded to change resonance by an experienced mentalist (Magician). Through
concetration is is very possible to "break the curse" on a poorly-enchanted
object. This requires the user to endure much hardship, however. But I
digress, back to the matter at hand.

## Relation of Anti-Energy to Energy

      Energy and Anti-Energy are precisely what they seem to be: opposites.
When Anti-Energy and Energy clash or combine, a violent outburst of loose
Energy is theoretically producesd. The Anti-Energy would then become Energy.
However it is impossible for Energy and Anti-Energy to combine, thus the
theory is just that, a theory, and cannot be tested. It is possible, however
to transform Anti-Energy to Energy and conversely. If a wall of Energy is
created, Anti-Energy cannot pass. It is possible however for Anti-Energy to
"slip through" the threads of Energy and still affect the target. The inverse,
however, of Energy not being able to viably penetrate Anti-Energy is that way
because Anti-Energy threads are extremely tightly bound together in what could
be reffered to as material objects, or "Matter". Some Matter actually serves
as a conductor for Energy thread vibrations if properly conditioned and
treated. Thus is the case in magical staves and other such objects. To
summarize what has just been said, Anti-Energy can cross Energy, Energy cannot
cross Anti-Energy (almost at all), yet Anti-Energy can be conditioned to
conduct Energy thread vibrations.

## Asides

This section is here to provide trivial information about Anti-Energy.
Anti-Energy is not present in any living being or being with a soul (may rest
the Dubhaimid). Anti-Energy cannot be the target of any Energy-based procedure
unless the weaver of the matrix at hand is purposefully attempting to infuse
the Anti-Energy with Energy vibrations. Anti-Energy is in fact the residual
Energy, which has ceased to vibrate, left in a thing or object after it has
perished or ceeded its soul. Thus ends the additional information I deem
important to add to this subsection.

# Effects of Energy on the Elements

      Ah yes, the most anticipated chapter of this study, the explanations of
relations between Energy and The Elements of Fire, Earth, Wind, and Water.
While one may consider that they are entities of their own, they are merely
forms of the appropriate Energy's group threads condensed to a low vibration.
In nature this occurs as everyday Elemental entities such as a flowing river
or blowing wind, fertile soil and consuming fire. It is when these threads are
woven into a matrix that they take offensive shape and are subject to their
creator's bend of will. To further explain this phenomenon which in reality
nearly everyone calls Wizardy, the following sections I have written.

## Violent Reactions

      The manner in which differently woven elemental matrices react is
astounding. Almost always the combination of two elemental Energies results in
a violent disruption. If the Energy of Water were to be cast upon Energy of
Fire, it would devastate the adversary. The same is true to the effect on Fire
Energies upon Air Energies, Air Energies upon Earth Energies, and Earth
Energies upon Water Energies. This appears as if a pattern, similar to the
analogy established prior to this section, which in itself referrs to the four
cardinal directions of North, South, East and West. The reactions of the
groups correspond quite similarly to those of the Elements, although not
inversely as it is in the NSEW example. It is possible to say that if the
reaction is reversed, for example Fire Energy upon Water Energy, the reaction
will be severly decreased in scale and produce less of the desired effect. The
reactions rely entirely upon the vibration of the Energy threads to determine
the reaction which will be produced when one matrix envelopes the thread of
another Energy Element. I myself, through all my searches and writings of
knowledge, have yet to discover the exact nature of what makes the vibrations
from one group act differently to those of all other groups.

## Correlations

      To bring close to the subject and tie the loose ends of the knot
together in another knot on the very same rope, I make these correlations of
the groups to the Elements and conversely. Suffice it now to say that group
One, being North and subsequentially the Element of Earth, is firmly placed at
the first position in the wheel of reactions (N, E, S, W). To its side, group
Two and the equivalent of East, lies the Element of Water. Following suit,
group Three, South, and also the Element of Fire, is next on the wheel. Lastly
positioned in the Western position is group Four, Air. The chain of reactions
is evident in this newly sketched diagram, in which the reaction of the
Element in the studied position decreases as the compared position moves
clockwise along the wheel, yielding the strongest reaction with the position
to its right in the sequence and the least forceful reaction with that to its
left. The circle of reactions is best illustrated as follows: [N, E, S, W, N,
E, S, W, N, ...] and so on. I find it difficult to explain in words what comes
so clearly to me in my mind. I can only hope that you may extract the images I
get in my mind from the spastic information spotted on this page.

# Conclusions

      There is so much more to say, so much that goes unsaid, yet it is far
from the boundaries of my reach to grasp such concepts as the primal existance
of all that is real, yet from the words I have aforewritten I do implore you
to pull what grits and bits of knowledge you see fit and fair to remember.
Each morcel of information presented to you during the past collection of
pages has a certain significance in the overall spectrum of knowledge of the
workings of what we so casually refer to as "Magic". As a Wizard I was able to
theorize on the first of the four Energy groups. The last two groups escape my
grasp nearly entirely. It seems to be that the only people capable of
understanding the last two groups of Energy are Priests. What link they have
to these last two groups that I do not is unkown to me, yet I am fairly sure
they would think the same of me if they speculated on why I am adept at
interpreting the first four of the groups. But soft, as I hear the bring
approach... I fear I have discovered something short of sacreligious and now
some greater force seeks to punish me for my herrecy, heretic that I am by
attempting to dismantle the fundamental structures of the elements and the
gods themselves. Thus I do complete this writing and prepare to stash the
bundle of papers, on which my knowlege has reached peak accumulation, in a
place less succeptable to search and siezure. Darkness is almost upon me now.
One final incantation. (Recite this exerpt if ever protection you need from
the reading of these papers): _"b'irlinn ort agus leighis le 'r feabhas"_...

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original may be viewed at http://darkages.com/community/phi/Chupaca_Energy/ .
```
