# A Treatise on the Priesthood

_by Cliona Malkier, in **Dark Ages**_

The first path out of the world of the mundane was the priesthood. Lacking then
the magic, which we now know, priests of the past turned their efforts to
prayer towards the gods of Kadath, to the remaining members of the Aosda
civilization. Those lost in prayer to this great civilization to the North went
mad, unable to heal themselves through the invocation of light, through the
favor of gods and goddesses without whom even we, Aislings of the age of
Atavism, would be unable to continue without.

Priests were lost to the North, to madness and suffering the likes of which did
not befall the Path again until the War of Shadows, the final battles of Danaan
and Chadul. It may not be unthinkable to suggest that perhaps madness was a
result of an effort to please all gods, ignoring the balances of power between
them, ignoring all things which hold them in alliance or force them apart. I
propose that perhaps if one's efforts towards the resting-place of the gods is
focused upon one particular deity, that we may be looked upon with favor, cast
pleasantly into the eyes of the Light.

Fiosachd guides those of the rogue's path; those cast from society, as he
himself was cast out of Aosda. Sometimes deceptive, other times silent, he
wanders the lands in search of someone whom he may deceive or from whom he may
gain wealth. It is in this way which he calls the rogues to his alliance,
feeding greedy dreams of wealth and self-defined power. He grants his followers
with their agility, their skill and cunning, those things that are essential to
one, should they seek to improve their financial situation.

Gramail casts his judgement upon Aislings, bringing them justice, using the
powers of his age, learnt over the aeons in Aosda, to bring ages of insight
into the nature of humanity to play, to understand the situations of judgement
and to dispense it fairly and without bias, treating rogues and priests the
same in the eyes of the light. He grants those without defense fairly from the
_dubhaimid_ , the scales of his justice always evenly balanced.

Cail, love-child of Ceannlaidir and Glioca herself, aids priests in their
healing powers, turning the tide of nature to favor our healing, giving us all
that we require, all that nature is able to do to aid us. Strong and silent,
ever peaceful, Cail holds us close to the earth, the art of arms long lost,
gentle in his ways. His father, Ceannlaidir, the god of war, watches over every
battle, and, I believe, over every priest of the Hunt, giving her the strength,
at times, to defend herself by fist and dagger, to fight the _dubhaimid_ which
seek her as well.

Deoch, for whom our calendar is named, continues the work of Danaan, his lover,
and it is ultimately he who brought us light, the creation without which
priests would not exist.

Perhaps I assume too much at this moment. I assume that all followers of the
Path seek the Light. This is not always true. The Priesthood is a Path to which
many Aislings are called, second only to the Wizards, dazzling young,
bright-eyed Aislings with spells of whirlwinds and ground shattering explosions
and water tearing a _dubhaimid_ nearly into bits. It is perfectly conceivable
that na ive Aislings coming from the life of a world-weary mundane may be lured
into the realm of Sgrios, invited to join him in his Dark Ways, called to
suffer eternally with him in the name of something I can't begin to call faith.

But I speak in biased terms now. I am a priestess of the light. I serve Glioca
under the watchful eyes of Luathas, guardian of the lost and tormented, those
seeking knowledge in words and writing, in the scriptures of the divine
prophets, those of Hy-Brasyl, consorting with the gods and goddesses, sure of
the role of nature. The nature of Light itself is found within these texts,
these words in ancient languages telling of _dies riae, dies illa, solvet
saeclum in favilla_ , ancient words, a tongue only learnt through careful study
and those long hours of referencing and cross-referencing texts, surrounded by
books, forgetting for days to sleep, to eat, to dream, with nothing else
mattering but seeking the knowledge of the world. I serve under Luathas, god of
gnosis, divine knowledge.

Others serve under the priestly gods, Cail, Deoch, Gramail, or directly under
Glioca herself, goddess of compassion, love, gentleness, a god whom I find
myself almost unworthy to grace with my supplication. Her representation stands
upon the altar in the Church of Our Lady of the Light, a wooden ikon of simple
form, a cross of sorts, one wooden beam laid across another. The simple
representation of love overlaid with compassion, gentleness, with no inner
opening, as in a circle or star, within which hate or evil may become
entangled. Also, perhaps, this is the form of a human being, crudely formed by
earlier mundanes, the giving posture of a man or woman, arms outstretched with
love, acceptance.

The stories of the gods and goddesses are well known, spread in words and
pictures by Bertil, fae princess and guide to Aisling priests. They hold
alliances among the gods, as well as holding enemies. Sgrios, enemy of Deoch,
Luathas, enemy of Gramail. This is all well-known by learned Aisling priests,
but perhaps not to the youngest of our Path, the smallest journeying from the
life of a mundane, those seeking to serve Light and avoid shadow. It is now
that I beg of you, for the sake of all priests and priestesses, as well as for
the life of all Aislings throughout Temuair, land of the Earth-Sea, that you
spread this knowledge to the youngest of us, tell them what you have heard
here, the merits to following the light, to avoiding the realm of Sgrios, and
saving others from the same fate.

A Treatise on the Priesthood

_

by Cliona Malkier in **Dark Ages

**_



The first path out of the world of the mundane was the priesthood. Lacking
then the magic, which we now know, priests of the past turned their efforts to
prayer towards the gods of Kadath, to the remaining members of the Aosda
civilization. Those lost in prayer to this great civilization to the North
went mad, unable to heal themselves through the invocation of light, through
the favor of gods and goddesses without whom even we, Aislings of the age of
Atavism, would be unable to continue without.

Priests were lost to the North, to madness and suffering the likes of which
did not befall the Path again until the War of Shadows, the final battles of
Danaan and Chadul. It may not be unthinkable to suggest that perhaps madness
was a result of an effort to please all gods, ignoring the balances of power
between them, ignoring all things which hold them in alliance or force them
apart. I propose that perhaps if one's efforts towards the resting-place of
the gods is focused upon one particular deity, that we may be looked upon with
favor, cast pleasantly into the eyes of the Light.

Fiosachd guides those of the rogue's path; those cast from society, as he
himself was cast out of Aosda. Sometimes deceptive, other times silent, he
wanders the lands in search of someone whom he may deceive or from whom he may
gain wealth. It is in this way which he calls the rogues to his alliance,
feeding greedy dreams of wealth and self-defined power. He grants his
followers with their agility, their skill and cunning, those things that are
essential to one, should they seek to improve their financial situation.

Gramail casts his judgement upon Aislings, bringing them justice, using the
powers of his age, learnt over the aeons in Aosda, to bring ages of insight
into the nature of humanity to play, to understand the situations of judgement
and to dispense it fairly and without bias, treating rogues and priests the
same in the eyes of the light. He grants those without defense fairly from the
_dubhaimid_ , the scales of his justice always evenly balanced.

Cail, love-child of Ceannlaidir and Glioca herself, aids priests in their
healing powers, turning the tide of nature to favor our healing, giving us all
that we require, all that nature is able to do to aid us. Strong and silent,
ever peaceful, Cail holds us close to the earth, the art of arms long lost,
gentle in his ways. His father, Ceannlaidir, the god of war, watches over
every battle, and, I believe, over every priest of the Hunt, giving her the
strength, at times, to defend herself by fist and dagger, to fight the
_dubhaimid_ which seek her as well.

Deoch, for whom our calendar is named, continues the work of Danaan, his
lover, and it is ultimately he who brought us light, the creation without
which priests would not exist.

Perhaps I assume too much at this moment. I assume that all followers of the
Path seek the Light. This is not always true. The Priesthood is a Path to
which many Aislings are called, second only to the Wizards, dazzling young,
bright-eyed Aislings with spells of whirlwinds and ground shattering
explosions and water tearing a _dubhaimid_ nearly into bits. It is perfectly
conceivable that na ive Aislings coming from the life of a world-weary mundane
may be lured into the realm of Sgrios, invited to join him in his Dark Ways,
called to suffer eternally with him in the name of something I can't begin to
call faith.

But I speak in biased terms now. I am a priestess of the light. I serve Glioca
under the watchful eyes of Luathas, guardian of the lost and tormented, those
seeking knowledge in words and writing, in the scriptures of the divine
prophets, those of Hy-Brasyl, consorting with the gods and goddesses, sure of
the role of nature. The nature of Light itself is found within these texts,
these words in ancient languages telling of _dies riae, dies illa, solvet
saeclum in favilla_ , ancient words, a tongue only learnt through careful
study and those long hours of referencing and cross-referencing texts,
surrounded by books, forgetting for days to sleep, to eat, to dream, with
nothing else mattering but seeking the knowledge of the world. I serve under
Luathas, god of gnosis, divine knowledge.

Others serve under the priestly gods, Cail, Deoch, Gramail, or directly under
Glioca herself, goddess of compassion, love, gentleness, a god whom I find
myself almost unworthy to grace with my supplication. Her representation
stands upon the altar in the Church of Our Lady of the Light, a wooden ikon of
simple form, a cross of sorts, one wooden beam laid across another. The simple
representation of love overlaid with compassion, gentleness, with no inner
opening, as in a circle or star, within which hate or evil may become
entangled. Also, perhaps, this is the form of a human being, crudely formed by
earlier mundanes, the giving posture of a man or woman, arms outstretched with
love, acceptance.

The stories of the gods and goddesses are well known, spread in words and
pictures by Bertil, fae princess and guide to Aisling priests. They hold
alliances among the gods, as well as holding enemies. Sgrios, enemy of Deoch,
Luathas, enemy of Gramail. This is all well-known by learned Aisling priests,
but perhaps not to the youngest of our Path, the smallest journeying from the
life of a mundane, those seeking to serve Light and avoid shadow. It is now
that I beg of you, for the sake of all priests and priestesses, as well as for
the life of all Aislings throughout Temuair, land of the Earth-Sea, that you
spread this knowledge to the youngest of us, tell them what you have heard
here, the merits to following the light, to avoiding the realm of Sgrios, and
saving others from the same fate.

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Cliona_Priest.html .
```
