# Mundane Traditions - Birth, Marriage, Death

_by Cliona Malkier, in **Dark Ages**_

When studying any culture, it is crucial to understand, sometimes more so than
the culture itself, the underlying situations which mold it. We were all once
mundanes, and I don't believe that anyone here will dispute the importance of
the three most important times of an Aisling's life; the beginning, middle and
end; Birth, Love, and Death. Who without love ever truly lives? This school of
thought prompts this essay, chronicilating mundane tradition and culture
surrounding the three most important points of an individual's existence. With
Mileth the center of mundane growth, this essay will mostly surround the
tradition established in the Mileth/Abel region.

## Birth

A child's life begins at his first movements within the womb, because that is
the first and, quite possibly, only positive sign that a mother will have to
confirm her suspicions. Once a child has been recognized, the next step is to
have his arrival prepared for by the woman's circle of his particular village.
The woman's circle is nothing more than the loose alliance of every woman
within a town to have given birth to a child, the one true sign of womanhood.
If he is the first child of a woman, his arrival is heralded by a small
ceremony of gift giving for the new mother. If he is the second child of a
woman, she is presented with a small knotted necklace of flowers. This
symbolizes the hope the women feel for her, and their continuing wishes that
her child is carried safely.

Several months later, when a woman's birthing pains begin, she is bundled by
her sisters to the home of the eldest woman in the village. In this situation,
the eldest woman is the one who has had the most children, and is thereby the
most experienced in the village. There, only the other sisters in the woman's
circle may care for the woman. It is said that if any man were too look upon
this ceremony of birth that he would be so shocked, that he would never lay
with another woman again.

When a child is born, wet and wrinkled even before he may be allowed to cry, he
is placed within a warm tub, to be dried and, ever so slowly, eased into the
world. He is allowed no contact with the mother, who is to be occupied with her
own care, for a woman's business is her own and no others. Sometimes, in the
case of illness, an elder may assist a new mother, but more often than not they
require no assistance.

A child is traditionally then allowed uninterrupted time with the mother. When
she is feeling well enough, the father may be allowed to come in and see the
child, but she is given a week to recover from the trauma of the birth,
allowing her time, also, to become accustomed to the situation. During this
time they are encouraged to spend time outside or in bed, but are not allowed
into town.

On a child's seventh day, they are to be taken to a council of the village
elders, a mixture of priests, government officials, and Aisling guides. There,
the babe is to be judged, using both magical and traditional means, for future
potential. There, he is named. Sometimes, on the basis of deed or personal
preference, an Aisling may change his name, but as a mundane, it is not an
accepted practice, and there is no acceptable method for putting a new name
into general use.

## Marriage

Mundanes typically marry before the age of eighteen, with the average falling
sometime around the fifteenth or sixteenth year. Aislings generally do not
marry in the typical fashion, instead going to a Fae glade or asking another
Aisling priest to marry them in the grand church of Glioca within Mileth's city
limits.

Most commonly, mundanes marry informally. Their ceremonies are performed in
town squares or village halls, with the woman's circle and the generally
accepted male mayor in conspicuous attendance. The whole of the ceremony
involves the bride and groom standing side by side while declaring intentions
to marry and a true and whole love. In many regions, all excluding the
Undine/Suomi, the final event that confirms a marriage is an exchange of rings
forged from the same smith. In Undine and Suomi, the culminating event is
nothing more than the bride choosing her husband through the simple act of
taking his hand.

Once the marriage has taken place and both the women's circle and the mayor
have accepted the union (often a nod of the head is all that is necessary), the
two are left on their own to sort out the unique chemistry of their marriage.

With regard to the taking of names, in most villages it is a line following the
men, with the eldest son taking on the responsibilities of the father following
his death, and with the melding of families following the name of the male,
while in Undine, the black sheep of all mundane traditions, the line follows
the female.

## Death

In the event of the death of a spouse, the remaining widow or widower is to
follow a period of mourning no less than one year following the death, for the
safety and well being of all the townsfolk. Once the period of mourning has
been completed, a village-wide festivity is thrown as a celebration not only
for the release of the remaining spouse from sorrow, but also for the release
of the soul from its earthly ties. While the soul of a mundane may at any time
before this point be released into the netherworld, it is generally accepted
knowledge, handed down from the gods themselves, it is said, that a soul will
under no circumstance remain earthbound longer than one revolution of the
seasons. This way, the soul can find his peace with one last autumn or sunset,
granting them nothing further to regret from their former life.

When it comes to death, both mundane and Aisling traditions align completely.
Here, for the sake of convenience, and based upon the fact that we ourselves
are Aislings, we shall refer to the rituals surrounding death on an Aisling
basis.

When an Aisling dies in battle, the first portion of the ceremony is to create
for him a funeral pyre. After a battle, an entire countryside may end up
aflame. By reducing his body to ashes, the purest form a human may take, and by
burning the ground upon which his blood has spilled, it prevents another thing,
be it blade of grass or a newborn kitten, for of course animals will not give
birth upon tainted land, from beginning a life before the one who lost it, the
Aisling warrior, may be laid to rest. His ashes are then to be either spread or
buried in the hometown of his remaining family, based upon the family's own
personal traditions.

When an Aisling dies of age or as a result of illness or accident, they are
buried with a chant and a prayer to the god of their choice, if not their
family's. In death, an Aisling's wishes are to be accepted out of respect,
regardless of the choices they made in life.

_Cliona Malkier_  
_Deoch 7_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Cliona_Tradition .
```
