# Treatise on the Nature of the Dark Masters

_By Daravon Ragnar in **Dark Ages**_  
_Athar Wizard of Temuair_

## Introduction

From the very first time I met him, I was filled with an insatiable desire to
understand such a remarkable being. A desire to understand his motivations, his
origins, the inner workings of his existence, his nature itself. I read all the
literature I could find about the subject and could learn much about him, but
it also unveiled to me a lot about the human nature as well. It was made clear
to me that people (and I believe this applies to any creature) tend to be much
less neutral than successful observation of reality requires. Historiographers
will agree with me on that one. And considering that all literature I have
access to is of human origin, plus the fact that the being I'm speaking of
always induces strong emotions on our kind (as well as on any living thing),
it's hard to find unbiased material on the matter. I'm speaking, of course,
about Sgrios, the master of Death and Decay. This document is my humble attempt
to offer hopefully neutral, unbiased conclusions made from my experiences with
Sgrios, Chadul and the Dubhaimid. Please note though that, being human in
nature, I might fail in that task. Use your discretion while reading it as well
as with everything in life.

## Sgrios's Physical Appearance

It is believed that Sgrios is actually the huge, human skeleton that is often
seen in the material world, but I personally believe that's nothing but an
illusion, an inaccurate projection of the actual being. The real Sgrios seems
to have no physical body.

## The Impenetrable Shield

I still remember it as if it had happened yesterday. I was in the Crypts of
Mileth, still amazed at my newfound powers as a wizard. The centipede chased me
into a corner; a battle took place. Despite being heavily wounded, I was the
one standing at the end and proceeded to claim his precious gland. It was then
that its previously unseen partner stabbed me from behind. That was the final
blow... I don't know how much actual time transpired, but it seemed like mere
seconds. The sensations that followed are indescribable to anyone who has never
experienced them, but all Aislings have or will experience the same as I did in
the course of their lives. I could feel the presence of two other entities
around me. The pattern of vibrations from one of them looked just like the
centipede I had killed moments before. It spoke to me not through words, but by
pure, raw concepts echoing into my mind. It was a mix of anger, fear and an
immense desire to survive. Anger for having me invade his territory and kill
him, and fear... of the third entity in the room. I then turned my attention
towards it and I was overcome with awe. Our existences seemed completely
insignificant in relation to the sheer power of that being. There were several
ethereal structures much like the tentacles of a squid but thicker, coming out
of it's main body and moving towards the centipede, until it was completely
engulfed. The tentacles then retreated back and I watched in terror as nothing
but vestigial energies could be felt from where the centipede once was. The
tentacles then slowly came in my direction, just like before. But when they
were about to touch me, something best described as a bubble of pure light
emerged from my soul, completely enveloping myself. The entity, that I now
understand was Sgrios, seemed frustrated and kept poking the impenetrable shell
for a few minutes and then, all of a sudden, I was back at my material body. It
seemed like my soul had been "wounded" after that though.

## Sgrios, Complete Opposite of All that is Living?

As I have said before, since that experience, I turned the focus of my research
towards Sgrios. Is he (I shall refer to Sgrios as male, but that's merely out
of convenience, as I believe "him" to be asexual) so absolutely different from
the creatures of the physical world as is believed? I suppose not. It's a
well-known fact that all creatures, directly or indirectly, feed upon the death
of others. Our species itself herds several animals with that purpose. Another
curious fact known to occur with Aislings, is a sudden surge of power that, in
the absolute majority of the time, happens after the Aisling has killed many
creatures. It's often referred to as an "insight". Some claim that the added
power comes from experience, but I highly doubt that experience alone would
make an Aisling hundreds or even thousands of times more powerful overall than
originally. This is observable in Aislings that have had many insights and, up
to this day, I haven't met a single of those that could remember how many foes
they had killed in battle. This leads me to conclude that, like Sgrios himself,
we need to absorb the life energy of other creatures in order to maintain our
existences and grow stronger. Our physical bodies, however, are highly
inefficient in absorbing ethereal energies and only a tiny portion of the
defeated soul is actually "devoured" by us. Sgrios, on the other hand, being a
completely ethereal being, is very effective at doing that, as the
insignificant lifeless remains of the centipede's soul emphasized. Given the
enormous complexity of his body, Sgrios would starve to death if he couldn't
absorb that much energy, I believe. I see Sgrios as the creature at the very
top of the world's food chain. Nothing, except Aislings, seems to ever escape
his hunger.

## The Bubble of Light

Pondering about the bubble of light that saved me from Sgrios several times
already (and certainly does the same to all Aislings), I came to the conclusion
that it could be related to Danaan's sacrifice in the past. Through her
ultimate act of altruism, she was somehow able to grant her children's souls a
light-based defense measure against Chadul and his minions. Up to this day,
Sgrios seems unable to do anything about it, although the process does damage
the Aisling soul.

## Sgrios and the Dubhaimid

Studying the relations between Sgrios, Chadul and the Dubhaimid, I am inclined
to believe the latter are the infant forms of one same species. It is believed
Sgrios first came into existence during Chadul's reign of terror over the
material world, when the Dubhaimid were free to feed upon all that is living.
So, I believe Sgrios one day has been a mere Fiend Pupa, lucky and capable
enough to accumulate the vast amount of energy that is certainly necessary to
transcend into the final stage of it's life cycle: The utter transformation of
the physical body into an ethereal one of immense power. I also suppose that
most of the Dubhaimid do not manage to absorb the required amount of spirit
energy before their physical bodies achieve the critical metamorphosis time,
and thus die in the process. This is extremely fortunate, as we would have
thousands of adult specimens just like Sgrios himself to deal with, otherwise.
Regarding Chadul, I believe he's an older and thus more powerful individual
than Sgrios, though not different in essence. He must have been able to gather
a massive cache of soul energy in the past wars though, as apparently he hasn't
been feeding for a long time. It seems he is surviving and healing his wounds
off the stocked energy and letting his promising son Sgrios have all currently
dispatched souls to grow as strong as Chadul already has.

## Relations Between the Dubhaimid and Humans

One fact disturbing and reluctantly admitted by many is the uncanny resemblance
between the latter larval stages of the Dubhaimid and us, humans. What
mysterious relations could there be between those humanoid forms and ourselves?
It is believed that the Dubhaimid first appeared when wizards started
experimenting with the fifth element. So, I believe it would be reasonable to
suppose they may have evolved from ourselves. Darkness might have acted as a
catalyst in the process and also granted the new species many of it's
properties. Some say the Dubhaimid were in fact created by the wizards, but I
doubt a human mind could devise something as complex and incredibly powerful as
Sgrios and much less manage to turn it into reality. We can't even replicate
the simplest of creatures, despite continued experiments of wizards (myself
included). Others say the Dubhaimid always existed and were awaken from their
slumber by us, but that doesn't explain their humanoid form, unless it were us
who evolved from them instead.

## Sgrios Worshippers

It came to my attention that a group of secretive people actually worships the
Master of Death himself. Why they would wish to do so is perfectly
understandable, considering how powerful Sgrios is. What used to puzzle me was
why Sgrios would befriend his former prey. Well, it seems to me that just like
the adult frog can no longer breathe water, Sgrios can no longer interact with
the physical, material world directly. His children can, but they are far too
limited by their vulnerability to Light and can barely leave Dubhaim Castle.
Aislings would then be the perfect allies for Sgrios, carrying out whatever
tasks the Dark God would need completed here, dispatching more souls for him to
feed upon and so on. Also, I believe Sgrios somehow needs physical entities to
actually deliver his children, the Dubhaimid,Â  into this world, though more
information needs to be gathered about that particular matter. Sgrios seems to
encourage his worshippers to kill their fellow Aislings. He offers them a small
amount of already processed soul energy when they do so, and it's generally a
welcome gift for the power hungry Aisling, unable to process much of the raw
soul energy gathered by killing other creatures as explained before. Why would
Sgrios do that, considering he can not feed upon the light- protected souls we
Aislings have? I suppose it's because Sgrios sees Aislings that are not under
his control as a threat and although he can't devour us, he can harm our souls
every time we fall into his domain. Considering that my assumption is true and
he does fear us, then we might have the potential to cause him harm or even put
an end to his existence entirely.

Another curious ability he grants his followers is the power to summon
Succubi. It is said those humanoid female looking creatures seduce men in
their dreams, but I believe that's merely a legend. In fact, I have never seen
a Succubus and the information I have available does not allow me to make any
considerations about those curious entities for now.

## Danaan and Chadul

Just like the Dubhaimid are probably the children of Sgrios and Chadul, we
Aislings are the children of Danaan, as well as the Fae before us. Deoch may
have helped we Aislings prosper and develop after our mother's death, but I
doubt he might be of the same species as us, being so different from Danaan in
nature. So, maybe just like a rare few especially capable Dubhaimid manage to
achieve adulthood, some of us might do so too, becoming beings of power
comparable to Danaan's. The fact that all known Gods except for Deoch, Sgrios
and Chadul like to represent themselves in the physical world with a human
image might hint towards their former nature. They're probably "adult Aislings"
while we are the children. And maybe that's what Sgrios and Chadul fear about
us Aislings, our potential to greatness beyond the tridimensional, physical
world, the potential to manipulate the sixth element directly and freely, like
Danaan could.

One curious fact however is that we can reproduce even in our lesser forms.
That might mean we're either not "children" of Danaan in it's exact meaning,
but merely her creations, or that for our species, the adult stage is optional
for it's perpetuation. It's imperative that we research further into that, as
it might hold the key to defeating our eternal enemies as well as to
transcending into the next stage of existence itself...

## Conclusion

This was my humble attempt at presenting the information I have gathered as
well as the conclusions I've come to through direct observation, about the most
hated entities of our world and beyond. I hope I have been as unbiased and free
of prejudice as humanly possible and that the majority of the theories I've
proposed in this document correspond to the Truth itself.

But only time and further investigation of Reality will tell.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This work is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Daravon_Darkmasters.html .
```
