# Temuairan Warfare

_By Daravon Ragnar in **Dark Ages**_

## Introduction

Through the course of History, warfare has been an integral aspect of virtually
all civilizations at one time period or another. For some cultures such as most
Goblin tribes, it's the very basis of society, the element that binds members
together. For others, notably the Fae and Elven civilizations, it's the cause
of their demise or withdrawal from Temuair.

It is my intention, with this document, to describe the particularities of
temuarian warfare, basing myself on historical records, as well as on direct
field observation. I will begin with a separate analysis of the main
civilizations of our lands, their tactics, units employed, past and present
conflicts and any other relevant information; then proceed with a description
of units made obsolete by various changes of circunstances; and finish with a
few speculations about the future of Warfare.

## Human

The humans are currently the dominant species of Temuair. Their military is, by
far, the most complex and efficient, with a tendecy for specialized units that
support each other, rather than "all purpose" ones. Our kind has a long history
of hostility with the Dubhaimid, our main enemy, but a few internal conflicts
also occur, of which the most remarkable was certainly the war between Lord
Tenes and the rebels led by Ainmeal. In the past, the humans were almost
conquered by the Dubhaimid, being saved from it only by the sacrifice of their
Goddess, Danaan. The advent of the Aisling was the final step in securing the
human supremacy and determined the decline of the Dubhaimid forces in this
realm.

### Warrior

The warrior is the mainstay of practically all human armies. They are most
effective in clear terrain such as plains, specially if supported by priests.
Being a melee unit, the warrior is extremely vulnerable to some aerial units,
as well as fortifications garrisoned by ranged ones. Difficult terrain can also
decrease their efficiency.

### Monk

The monk is a melee unit that does not require weapons or shields. They are
generally employed by factions that do not have access to metals and/or
manufactured weapons, as was the case with Undine. Their raw battle power is
lower than that of the warrior, but their higher dexterity, harder training and
ability to brew potions out of medicinal herbs usually make up for it. Contrary
to what is believed, the cost of forming monk legions is as high as that of
warrior ones, as what is saved on equipment is spent on training.

### Priest

A support unit. They do not usually engage in combat and are almost completely
defenseless by themselves, but when added to a group of melee units in adequate
proportions, they can raise it's overall battle power by over 50%. Experienced
commanders find that it's best to have one priest for each two or three
warriors or monks, depending on the circunstances. Worthy of note also is the
positive effect priests have on the morale of troops, preventing desertions and
encouraging them to do battle with their utmost potential. They are also a
necessity when epidemics spread among the legions. Even though they can't
actually cure some of them, they can ensure most of the soldiers will at least
survive and retain their ability to fight for a longer period of time.

### Wizard

A ranged unit. In combat, the wizard is best used to garrison fortifications
and defend choke points such as bridges and valleys, as they can make those
almost impervious to melee attack. They are not effective in open terrain,
since melee units can reach and slay them with ease. Wizards also provide air
defense to travelling armies or settlements. Some generals try to avoid using
wizards in their armies, as they are particularly prone to insubordination, but
those who can successfully command them have a definite advantage.

### Rogue

The rogue is used for scouting, as well as for undercover operations.
Travelling armies usually send a few rogues ahead and around their flanks to
detect ambushes, traps, and enemies. When the army prepares to camp at
nightfall, rogues can be deployed to set a defensive perimeter of traps that
will both alert the encampment and weaken incoming enemy forces, should they
attack during the night. Being proficient at remaining unnoticed, they are also
perfect for more sneaky operations such as assassination of key enemy
personnel, sabotage, poisoning of enemy water supplies and spying. The key to
best using the rogue is being alert to any and all opportunities.

### Siege Engines

Those include the catapults and ballistas of various designs. Their range is,
by far, the greatest and their raw destructive power is fantastic. When used
against fortifications in considerable numbers, they invariably force the
occupants to either come out and fight, retreat or respond with their own siege
engines (with the notable exception of Dubhaim Castle). Those devices are very
bulky and would slow down troops imensely, so they are usually built at the
very site of the siege (just outside of enemy range) when employed offensively.
Siege Engines are extremely uneffective against mobile targets in open terrain
and are also the most vulnerable of units if the enemy can reach them (they
might even be seized instead)

## Dubhaimid

The origins of the Dubhaimid in Temuair are not yet known, but there are
numerous speculations about it. Some believe human prayers towards the northern
lands of Kadath alerted them about the existence of a new world to conquer; our
world. Others think they are creations of mad wizards, or the corrupted
worshippers of Kadath themselves. Another hypothesis is that they have always
existed within Temuair and were awakened somehow. The fact is that, in the year
1705 of Danaan, the first Dubhaimid was sighted and since that fateful day,
Temuair has been the theater of a bloody conflict. The Dubhaimid were
responsible for the downfall of the Elven civilization and almost conquered the
humans as well, being stopped cold by Danaan's sacrifice. Currently, Dubhaimid
presence in our world is minimal, consisting of a single settlement conquered
from the elves, in the Isle of Man. It is possible that more Dubhaimid temples
exist in Temuair, but if that's the case, they were not discovered yet. One of
the particularities of Dubhaimid units is that they don't ever use or wear any
kind of combat equipment nor are able to use magic (or at least they didn't
until recently), relying only on their natural weapons (claws, teeth, fists).
Also, they are extremely vulnerable to the sixth element and it's discovery
determined their decline in our world. Dubhaimid will always attempt to fight
their battles during the night or in dark places. Not depending as much on
vision (and knowing their foes do), they can fight with unbelievable skill even
in the darkest of places. A few years after the beginning of the Shadows War,
an attempt was made by Danaan's forces to raze Dubhaim Castle. The fortress was
bombarded for an entire day by dozens of catapults, suffering only minor damage
(What grants it's supernatural resistance is still unknown at this time). It
appears that, as soon as night fell, a swarm of Dubhaimid came out of the
castle and slaughtered them. All the scouts could find was the diary of general
Teran and the destroyed encampment with a huge eight-pointed star drawn in the
center. Strangely, no survivors or even corpses were found at all.

### Fiend Pupa

Those are not actually combat units, although they will fight if necessary.
They are infants and will soon turn into a cocoon, hatching as a ghast after a
few days. Recently, hordes of these creatures could be seen assaulting
Rucesion, Piet and Loures. It seemed like a desperate last effort and was not
successful. Some tacticians believe it was intended to be merely a test of the
new magical capabilities the Dubhaimid are somehow developing as of recently.

### Ghast

Not fully grown yet, but considerably more powerful. Although this form has
hands apparently capable of handling tools, they do not use any weapons. Their
mental capabilities do not seem to follow the same rate of growth their bodies
do, thus making them unable to handle them.

### Cruel

The Mainstay of the Dubhaimid forces. Not particularly strong individually,
without armor or weapons, those units often make up for that with overwhelming
numbers. During the Shadows War, many human cities have fallen to the
relentless assaults of these creatures, after the settlements were surveyed by
Gargoyles

### Gargoyle

The only aerial unit currently in existence (or so we believe). People knew
that when one of those was spotted flying around the outskirts of a city, a
strike was soon to follow and human armies would be rushed to defend that
position. It's primarily a scout and numbers of these creatures will sometimes
drop boulders at melee divisions with impunity, but most of the times they will
just come down and fight, as they do not seem to be very intelligent.

### Succubus

This unit does not appear to be a "true" Dubhaimid, even though they seem to be
allied with Chadul. Those creatures enjoy mating with human males, as well as
torturing and killing them in the process. Succubi are apparently able to
manipulate and contact men in their dreams and Chadul seemed to make great use
of this ability. Rumors say Lord Tenes himself was driven to utter obsession by
a succubus and fell in love with Dubhreal as soon as his eyes landed on her.
Those units also possess imense battle power, being able to cast elemental
spells (another fact that makes me believe they are not actual Dubhaimid) and
having extraordinary agility. Their wings do not allow flight however (at least
not in our realm). The rarity with which Chadul employs them suggests the
process of bringing Succubi to this dimension is not a simple one.

### Shape-Shifter?

This is merelly a rumor, but many people believe there are Dubhaimid
infiltrated among us, assuming our form. Some "humans" such as Dubhreal were
believed to be representatives of such creatures, even though I personally
think those are merelly people serving Chadul of their own, free will, seduced
by his promises of power and extended lifespans. Another possibility is that
Chadul is actually able to possess humans, taking control of their bodies
completely. The existence or not of a shape-shifter Dubhaimid spawn still
requires more investigation.

## Goblin

This species is native to the Eastern Woodlands of Mileth, as well as to
Astrid. The goblins are extremely warlike and are divided into dozens of enemy
clans spread all over the woods. Their life is that of constant battle and
someone dying of old age in their tribes is a very rare event. Their
settlements never last more than a few years before being ravaged by enemy
clans. Due to that, they are unable to maintain an efficient agricultural
basis, having a very small population (even though the birth rate is very
high). Their battles rarely ever involve more than a few hundred people. Their
strict code of "honor" is a major drawback to their efficiency. Thoughts such
as "retreating", "remaining behind the fortifications while the enemy is
taunting" or "surrendering" never ever cross their minds. Making contact with
the humans was, in a sense, beneficial to their organization. Having a new
"enemy" in the vicinity convinced some of the clans to merge and stop the
relentless internal slaughter. All goblin units are "multi-purpose" ones. Being
primarily melee units, their warriors are also able to employ cradh, poison,
and even elemental magic against their foes. Unfortunately for them, that also
means they are not particularly good at any of those roles...

Finally, if you ever do battle against those creatures, don't consider
surrendering as an option. They take no prisoners (and when they do, those are
used for sacrifices).

### Soldier, Warrior, Guard

In essence, all of those are the same. They are all melee units with limited
magic abilities, but those who distinguish themselves in combat get to use and
wear the best equipment (i.e. the equipment seized from the humans).

### HobGoblin

It's said those units are created through artificial means, in an attempt to
counter the negative effects of age on a person's physical attributes (not that
many get to grow old among the goblins). They are even more reckless than the
average goblin, usually charging at the enemy with war cries even if
outnumbered by ten to one.

## Kobold

There are two distinct groups of kobolds. The kobolds of the Mileth Eastern
Woodlands and the kobolds of Astrid. The first have always lived under the
shadow of the goblins, being constantly slaughtered and exploited by them.
Being physically weaker than goblins, the wood kobolds were unable to develop
much and have grown extremely xenophobic from this relation. The kobolds from
Astrid have goblins as their neighbours likewise, but apparently they settled
that territory first and had a definite hold of it when the goblins arrived.
Thus, the latter faction of kobolds was able to develop remarkably well, and
their military reflects that. It appears to have a rudiment of specialization
already in place and the tendecy is for that to grow more evident as time
passes.

### Warrior/Scout

A melee unit, with poor equipment and minor elemental capabilities. They can be
seen patrolling the borders of Kobold territory alone or in very small groups
and will usually engage invaders instead of reporting back to their towns. I
suppose it's assumed that if the scouts do not return, there are intruders in
the area.

### Shaman

Those are the most impressive kobold units. They are proficient at elemental
magic and also possess a curious illusionism skill that allows them to disguise
as wolves. Their ability to also summon Dubhaimid suggests worshippers of
Sgrios are not exclusive to our species.

### Trap Layer

This unit is a rudiment of the human rogue. They are able to set traps, but do
not appear to possess the other abilities our rogues do.

## Warfare of the past - Units made obsolete

There's no room for inefficiency in Warfare. Those are some of the units that
one day have roamed the bloody battlefields, but not anymore.

### Archer

The human ranged unit of the past. Developments in the quality of armor and
shields decreased their efficiency greatly, as the arrows were unable to pierce
it, but the final blow was the advent of the wizard, which can fully replace
them with many advantages.

### Knight

This unit was, and still is, devastating against infantry in the open, but a
curious particularity of Temuair prevents their use in considerable numbers.
Along the mountains that split Temuair in two, numerous griffin make their
nests. Those creatures are obsessed with horse flesh and it is believed they
can hear their noises when large herds of horses are travelling (stopped
horses, as well a small amount of them do not attract Griffin) The fact is,
after losing three entire cavalry legions to swarms of flying lions with eagle
faces, Loures felt discouraged to employ those costly units anymore.

### Necromancer, Skeleton, Zombie

Loures used to employ those units against Ainmeal, but it seems the secrets
were somehow lost after Tenes's defeat (it's not very hard to imagine why, as
the civilians generally abhor necromancy). Being completely mindless, undead
units have the distinct advantage of not being affected by morale changes,
never deserting or disobeying orders, but actual battle power is not their
strong point. The psychological impact of having to battle decomposing, foul
smelling, growling and walking corpses on the enemies is more than enough to
make the undead useful, nevertheless.

## The Future of Warfare

Those are my speculations as to how Warfare will develop in the following
decades.


### The Misterious Mineral of Dubhaim Castle

The walls of Dubhaim Castle are pratically impervious to damage. Whether it's
some kind of spell or mineral responsible for that, it shall be discovered and
I expect it to be a revolution on fortification techniques.

### Magic Deflector

Some human settlements such as Mileth somehow nullify any magic cast within it.
If we can determine what exactly causes that, we may be able to successfully
shield our melee units against magic, perhaps even rendering wizards obsolete
in battle. Not a pleasant though, might I add...

### Dubhaimid Mastering Magic

In recent assaults against human cities, Dubhaimid units could be seen
employing various spells. If they can develop this ability further, they might
regain some of their dominance over our realm.

### War Behemoths

The Dracos of Pravat Cave would be an excellent replacement for the horses if
their fury can be tamed somehow. The Grimlock people, being extremely peaceful,
do not seem to notice the natural resources they have lying right next to them.

### Human Flying Units

If we can eliminate the Gargoyles before they can return to their settlements
with the acquired information, we might gain a distinct advantage over the
Dubhaimid. We need an unit to fight them in their domain - the Air. If Griffin
can be domesticated for riding, this role shall be filled.

## Conclusion

Although the majority of our people abhor violence in any form, I do not
realistically believe warfare will ever come to an end. At least not in a world
with limited resources, growing populations and conflicting interests.

_Deoch 7, 13th Moon, 2nd Day_  
_Daravon Ragnar_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Daravon_Warfare.html .
```
