# Conjectures on the Mukul Culture and Society

_by Dartanian Lestor in **Dark Ages**_

When I first entered into the stagnating swamps of the Mehadi, my first intent
was, of course, directed solely to the curing of the poor Jacqueline in Loures
who suffered the ill effects of a horrible disease. I held me nose and entered
into the murky clouds of putrid gases and made my way into the depths of the
swamp. I saw many creatures, some looking similar to those I had seen before
but with subtle differences. Their vipers seemed to look different from those
in the Wastelands and Enchanted Garden, and even the individual swamp vipers
had their own slight differences. One type seemed to have longer, but thinner
fangs and had a crest on the top of their head. The other had a widened jaw
that seemed as if it could swallow most of the other swamp creatures in few
tries. After I killed and skinned a few of these, I noticed a difference in
their glands, one being sharp red and looking as if it were about to combust at
any moment. The other seemed a very deep blue, soft and squishy as if it held
some sort of fluid. Some creatures looked the same as the dubhaimid-like
creatures that attacked our cities. There were some frogs with lengthened
tongues. As well, there were also a couple Mukul but they seemed to glare at me
with reddened eyes, filled only with loathing.

After negotiating along the river to the north, I finally came across a small
group of Mukul that were a lot calmer than the ones I had seen before. Their
eyes were a gentle blue, their green reptilian skin glistened from the humid
air. They still looked at me suspiciously and curiously but more out of
interest than hatred. I held a hydele duem out to one of them and the creature
simply sniffed it, played around with the cork a bit, and threw it to shatter
on the ground. A bit despondent, I tried a different approach and held out one
of the glands I had picked up. The Mukul again sniffed it, but this time nodded
and placed it in the confines of her robe. Then, to my own surprise, she opened
her mouth and, in a broken Temuairan tongue, said, "Why you in our land,
outsider? What you wish known to you?" I staggered for a reply at this, but
then asked who she was and if she could tell me anything about his tribe. She
replied "I am Rishi Jivanta. You ask much to know of my people. Not many have
concern to talk to us." I talked with the Mukul, lived among them, fetched the
glands that they so loved, and they grew to call me...I hesitate to use the
word friend because the Mukul do not have that strong a bond with any outsider,
but they did call me "non-enemy" once. I suppose I can settle for that.

## Speaking with the Latika

I first learned a lot of the Mukul culture from my speaking with the Latika. He
mostly pointed out the society that they held and it is not much different from
our own. It is in fact a complex system of working. Each Mukul in the tribe has
a specific duty and two titles. I learned that the first I was talking to was
not speaking his name, but his title. The first part of their title is a status
that is earned. No matter what side of the society one is born into, they are
able to accumulate their status. What is surprising is we have the exact same
positions in our own society. There is first the Rishi. This translates, they
told me, roughly to sage, but I think a better comparison would be "enlightened
one." The sages are ones who think, feel, hold emotion and imagination. I
believe that these Rishi are the aislings of their culture. They certainly act
in the same manner and conduct themselves with great esteem. Next are the
Zudora, the Laborers. They toil restlessly over the swamps, trying to keep the
flowers cultivated or gather the harvests. They are rarely seen because they do
so much work in their fields, much like the mundanes in our society. The last
position that is earned is the title of Chandi, the Outcast. A dissenter of the
tribe who does not meet the Mukul ways is cast out completely of the culture, a
form of exile. This is the worst state that a Mukul can reach. If us aislings
are exiled from a home, we have the possibility of turning to another town if
we feel that we were wronged. For the Mukul, being a Chandi is much more
serious. There _is_ no where else for them to go outside of the swamp so they
remain scorning any living creature that is free. No wonder those I saw earlier
glared at me with those hardened, hateful eyes. The most dangerous are the
Tirtha Chandi. The Latika said no more on this subject, so I was curious as to
what exactly this meant but dared not upset him by asking. They are the most
dangerous and hateful of all the Chandi, because they feel that they were the
most wronged by being removed from the society.

In addition to the position that the Mukul earn, there are several titles that
they are born into. Most of these are similar to the titles we give many
aislings for achievements. It is different for the Mukul for they are trained
to this position since they are young.

The Latika, who is the one that told me all of this, is the tribal leader. They
make the decisions of the tribe, the laws and procedure, and are responsible
for casting out the Chandi. This is much like our burgesses except that there
is less room for tolerance among the Mukul people. A council of Rishi decide
what is best for their tribe, but the Latika has the final say. Since they are
born into the position also, they cannot be removed. Much chaos has occurred in
Mukul tribes because a Latika went berserk and exiled any who spoke against
them from the tribe. Mostly though, these Latika are assassinated and
sacrificed to Natesh so that the evil will be cleansed from the tribe. They
also are knowledgeable about the various creatures of the swamp.

The title of Jivanta, the one who first spoke to me, basically translates as
"Life-giver." These seem to me to be the priests of the tribe. Their job is to
know the different flowers and where to find them, as well as their effect. It
is also their duty to protect the garden and to collect the sacrifice demanded
by Natesh. They know the secrets of the swamp flowers.

The Kerani are Artisans of the tribe. They are similar to our artists and
bards, telling stories and making pictures for the tribe. The details of
exactly what the Kerani's duties are were not exactly clear.

The Vibha are known as the Keepers of Time. Basically, these are the historians
of the tribe. They remember all the events of import that occur in the swamp
and keep as detailed a record as they can. These members are highly respected
in the tribe as their history and tradition depends on remembering the past.
Their whole society is based on connections to the past.

The other thing that the Latika spoke with me about were the animals in the
swamp. He told me to beware of the leeches and shriekers. The leeches poison is
deadly, often burning the skin as they latch tightly onto an unsuspecting
traveler. They transfer the blood they suck to their own bodies and live
parasitically off of all those they attack. Shriekers seemed the weirdest
creature, resembling a fungus but mobile. The putrid spores they emit can
incapacitate the unsuspecting victim easily, where they then proceed to feed
off the sleeping creature, whether they be another swamp creature or aisling.
The dubhaimid-like creatures, called the Dunan and Servitor, were demons
spawned by this Natesh due to his rage at the ceremony being disrupted. Also,
he spoke much of the two types of vipers I saw earlier. That one with the sharp
fangs and the crest on its head with the reddish gland turns out to be the
Anala viper. These creatures are the more dangerous of the two vipers and are
ruled by fire. They are chosen as guardians of the garden heart at the center
of the swamp. Their bite is not fatal but sends a fire of pain through the
blood, making them particularly nasty and jealous creatures. Their lesser
cousin is the Malini viper. The jaw is wider and their heads and teeth are
flatter than the Anala. They rule by water. A bite from them releases a venom
that chills the blood, only slightly less excruciating than the Alana. They as
well guard the garden but they are less territorial and only attack when
extremely alarmed. The most important creature it seemed was the frog. The
Latika went on talking about the frog for hours but never truly making any
advance in his statements. I only got that they were sacred to the Mukul and
that I mustn't kill any under any circumstance, even if they are not seen. I
swore by oath that I wouldn't.

## Speaking with the Jivanta

After several days talking with the Latika, I decided to spend my time with the
Jivanta that had first spoken with me. I was very curious about the flowers,
especially the pinkish meal that the Latika tried to entice me into trying. I
politely refused. I also wished to know what flowers would best cure
Jacqueline.

Again, I learned a lot more than I expected. The Jivanta are the herbalists of
the Mukul culture, the "life-givers". But they also play a sort of clerical
role. It is their duty to gain the blossoms that are to be sacrificed to
Natesh. They treat disease and wounds that occur in the tribe. They also lead
the prayers to the 6 gods as well to the frogs who are sacred to the Mukul.

The flowers that the Jivanta gather are all located in the heart of the Mehadi
swamp. This garden is what the vipers guard so jealously. Through the shifting
swamps lies the garden, which lies southward of the Mukul village (southeast to
be exact if me memory serves correctly). These swamps appear to be built on an
unsolid floor so the current moves them every once and a while. This makes
telling others of navigation difficult. Once the heart is reached, there is a
beautiful garden at the end. The Jivanta gather flowers from here and quickly
head to the river delta where Natesh devours the offerings presented to him.

There are three specific types of flowers that the Mukul gather. The Nili is a
pink flower with 6 petals and a yellowish pollen in the center. These are
prepared by the Kerani into a ceremonial meal and eaten by the Mukul when the
Mela is to be performed (Mela is the Mukul word for the sacrifice of flowers).
Preparation of this flower is extremely delicate. First the pollen must be
removed but the petals themselves cannot be damaged. Any damage to the petals
before they're properly prepared would ruin the meal. Then they are coated
with the venom of an Anala viper. When it comes in contact with the petals,
they turn a brighter, more vibrant colour. The petals of the Nili flower
neutralize the Anala venom and flavour it while it's whole. After the venom
is fully absorbed, the petal is crushed into a fine grain and made into
something similar to bread. This bread is quite a delicacy to the Mukul but it
is poisonous to humankind. I feel meself lucky for not eating that portion that
was offered to me with the Latika.

The other type of flower was the Sevti. This flower she (I assume it was a
"she" I could not truly tell the difference in the Mukul gender and I dared not
ask.) showed to me was said to cure a horrible disease called Ratri. Ratri is
apparently first like a type of flu, but it escalates to form large black sores
over the body. These sores emit a stench similar to burning coal and swamp
gases. It seemed the exact same horrible fate that Jacqueline was facing each
day so I sat, intrigued. These flowers are all snow white and have the light
scent of lemon. Even the pollen and stem take on a whitish colour. There is
somewhat in the soil where these take root that are absorbed by the flower in
such abundance as to turn the flower itself white. It is this mineral in the
soil that is responsible for the purification effects but it is only effective
once it has been absorbed by the flower. Two petals of this flower should be
stripped and placed in a half-bottle of wine in order to make an effective
cure. The swamp, however, does not have anything resembling grapes to make the
wine, so they make due with a wine made from fermenting liquid inside the swamp
reeds. This is more pungent than regular wine, but once the slight irritation
passes the tip of the tongue, it is an excellent delicacy, having a
strawberry-like taste. This wine is also not as intoxicating as regular wine,
and the Mukul seem to handle alcohol better than us aisling kind. I fortunately
stopped the drinks before becoming too inebriated. When used as medicine, the
irritation is even less and the sweet taste does not make it as bitter a
medicine as most. They do this because it is easier to swallow with the
reed-wine (which they called Sevtibroma, "Sevti cutter"\-- it cuts the foul
taste of the petals out) than to chew the petals themselves, which have the
texture of leather and taste like swamp grass.

The blossom most have probably heard about is Tulsi. This is mostly the flower
that Natesh demands as a sacrifice. The flower itself has a thick green stem
that exudes a sticky white sap when cut. It is this sap combined with the blue
heart of the plant that is said to produce the effects of longevity. However,
it does take considerable concentration to prepare as the amounts are exact. In
fact, no one, human or Mukul, knows the exact mixture to get the immortality
effects it is said to have. Supposedly, though, Natesh does know these secrets,
but does not reveal them to anyone. Around the heart, 7 green leaves grow. This
element of the Tulsi is poisonous and must be handled with great care. The
Mukul have special gloves made from the skin of the vipers to handle these
plants. Any damage done to them could anger Natesh.

## Speakings with the Kerani

After talking long with the Jivanta and thanking her, I slept that day off. In
the morning, I decided to go for a brisk walk in the swamps when I noticed a
younger Mukul looking upon a frog posed on a tree stump. It seemed that he was
studying the creature with great care and took a reed brush to put colours onto
a leaf of a large swamp plant that I saw in the garden a couple days back. I
greeted him heartily, but the Mukul did not answer at all nor acknowledge me
presence. I started to speak again, but the Mukul held one hand up to me, then
proceeded with his reply softly.

"I have heard of you. You are the outsider who so curious about our culture? I
shall speak to you once I have capture the essence of this great frog."

After he had finished the painting, which I saw held many vibrant colours and
emotion in it, the Mukul turned to me and spoke of himself. He couldn't tell me
too much except that Keranis were the Artisans of the tribe. They tell the
stories, make the arts and crafts, prepare the meals (except for ceremonial
ones), and forge the bells they use to worship. The bells I found interesting
since I cannot think of any metal in the swamp. Yet they showed them to me and
there was definite metal in it, but slightly dull metal, possible Talgonite.
This seemed to re-enforce their story of them having been in the sewers during
ancient times, since I have seen many a creature down there carry them, as well
as some creatures of the swamp holding it. The twinkling I heard from it was
quite melodic but slightly sorrowful. The Kerani told me that this was a bell
forged for Natesh. Apparently, although the Natesh give sacrifices to this god
of theirs, they do not personally think highly of him. Rather, they fear his
wrath and are imprisoned by his demands. They formed this Pact with the hope
that mayhaps one of the aislings could be a saviour to them from their fate.

I asked this Kerani what the Mukul value and I found it interesting that he
did not say anything about their gods. Rather what they value are things found
in the swamp. They find these dear to them and only things coming from the
swamp they can count friendly, anything outside they can be at most
indifferent to. This would explain why the hydele deem I gave to them was
wholly ineffective in gathering their attention but the glands I had picked up
piqued their interests.

I also, while I was there, heard a few stories told by the Kerani. Mukul do
not know the meaning of lying in any circumstance. They thus have no fictional
stories, only what has been passed down from generation to generation. The
stories I heard most of was their great goddess Matrika. Her golden light
shined with the sun. She stood fast against Natesh in her battles and sought
to protect them from the fate of persecution that was to come. I have my own
theories on Matrika and Natesh but I shall save them until I've said more to
justify it. They spoke next most of the evil of Natesh, and how he sought so
much flowers and held the Mukul in fear and awe. When Natesh was born, he
apparently ripped the swamps with his mighty roar from the steady path that
held them. By separating these swamps, he made the Shifting Swamp which
periodically moves and changes itself due to the currents underneath. Soon
after he did this, he started his demands. The last they spoke of were the
frogs. They think them more than animals, but long-lived, almost spiritual
beings. They spoke with the old gods in the sewers and with those the Mukul
called the "old ones." I still intend to search down in the Piet sewers to
possibly find these they speak of. The frogs are protected furiously by the
Mukul, and are said to be their ancestors. This would make sense as their
green skin and feet seem to match. I'll need to look more into that.

## Speakings with the Vibha

After listening to the stories of the Kerani, I headed off and saw an old dark
figure approach me. He raised one finger level with me brow and, with less of
an accent and more fluid Ardmaghian speech, said to me, "You have done very
well, Outsider, to speak of us of our ways. However, you have thus far
neglected to speak to the wisest of us all. I am one of the Rishi Vibha. I
would be pleased to impart my stories."

And I soon saw what the Vibha meant by his statement. His stories were
basically the entire history of the Mukul. Shortened as he told me, because the
Mukul would never reveal all the secrets of their culture to any outsider, but
I listened enthralled.

The basic unit of time they use is similar to our own in the fact that we use
our patron god, Deoch who was father of all aislingkind, to date it.
Previously, we had used Danaan, the goddess of Light, because she meant so much
to us. The Mukul too use their most prominent god, though not necessarily their
most loved, Natesh. I am not certain how long exactly a Natesh is in terms of
Deoch dating but I assume that it is just a bit longer than our own Deochs.
Some of the events seem to coincide with our own and that is how I've placed
them. It may also be set with the blooming cycle of the Tulsi, also slightly
longer than a Deoch. This is pure speculation.

The first Natesh was the speculated date of Natesh's birth. I say speculated
because I believe Natesh might actually be much older than the Mukul imagine,
this date was simply when he made himself known to the Mukul. Natesh was the
6th god, which means there were 5 others, at least one being Matrika. So who
are the other four? I suspect that each of these are representative of the
patron gods of the four titles: Jivanta, Kerani, Latika, and Vibha. They would
not tell me their names unfortunately.

By the third Natesh, the god was demanding that flowers be sacrificed to him.
The first was the Nili, after it was ground into the ceremonial meal described.
Then he asked later for the Sevti, or he would cast the plague of Ratri upon
the Mukul. The Mukul saw no choice but to obey. Whenever the Mukul had suffered
Ratri, they died by the hundreds, leaving precious few left. It is a disease
they've known to fear. By Natesh 16, Natesh further demanded a Tulsi Mela.
He said that his "heart would be rekindled by it." I suspect Natesh needed this
to become immortal, which would make it passing strange since as a god, one
would think him to already be immortal. Only Natesh truly knows this secret.

Some of the Mukul started to wonder this too. The conjecture I made earlier
with the Latika was realized here as the Vibha called those who opposed the
decision the Tirtha. One Natesh after he started to ask for the Tulsi, the
rebels decided that they would refuse to give it to him. They thought that if
Natesh's heart was so weak, by refusing the offerings, they could soon be rid
of him. The Latika did not see this as wise and a war resulted. It was the
bloodiest period in the history of the Mukul. There was a civil war that broke
out. In addition to this, Natesh was not appeased and Ratri ravaged the
culture. Over 2000 Mukul on both sides died from this battle. They are very
sensitive about it. The Tirtha that survived were cast out forcefully and grew
with a bitter hatred of everything around them, Natesh, outsiders, as well as
the other Mukul, even the ordinary creatures of the swamp. Their eyes turned
dark to everything other than their own Chandi kind.

Matrika, the Mukul goddess of the sun, was saddened by this needless slaughter
and, on the 23rd Natesh, their beloved goddess of the sun sacrificed herself so
that the Mukul could have a savior. There had been much bloodshed among the
Mukul and with Natesh. The Mukul had hoped that one among the aislings had been
that. I pray they were not disappointed. The Mukul honoured this sacrifice by
making the Ratri Mela this Natesh the largest any Mukul had ever seen. They had
great hope as well and were happy to collect the blossoms for the first time in
a while.

This current Deoch, Deoch 7, corresponds with the Mukul date of Natesh 28. The
Mukul believed that if Natesh was not appeased in time, this would have been
their final Natesh. Ratri would sweep the Mukul villages and utterly destroy
them, completely incurable because none would have the strength to gather or
mix the Sevti, and they think no outsider would help them.

## Final Conjectures on the Mukul people

As I left the Mukul, I got to thinking about their culture and one thing
bothered me. The Vibha had told me a lot that got me thinking. What I believe
now is that this Matrika they speak of is none other than Danaan herself. She
is goddess of the sun and light as she is in our own culture. She sacrificed
herself so that their culture might be saved as she did for ours. This is
another reason I believe that the period of a Natesh is slightly longer than
our Deochs, for they have had only 5 Nateshes pass to our 7 Deochs since the
sacrifice. But it is a reasonable assumption. This would place Natesh's
birth at about Deoch 3260. I also said I speculated that Natesh was not truly
born at this time. This is because that Natesh's actions seem so similar to
what either Chadul or Sgrios would do. This Natesh seems to seek the same
resurrection that they do. In addition, the dubhaimid-like creatures that
appeared coincide with the possibility that he is one or the other. Demanding
the Tulsi flowers, Chadul might be seeking to regain his own power after being
weakened by the battle with Danaan. That or this Natesh might be part of him
reborn. Either way, Matrika and Natesh seem distinctly at odds, much like
Chadul and Danaan. Natesh also seems to resort to threats of plagues and
destruction, much like Sgrios or Chadul would be apt to commit. There are many
things left unanswered, but many speculations I have made as well. According to
the Mukul, only the frogs know for certain. And they refused to speak on it.

_Treatise written in late winter, Deoch 7, by Dartanian Lestor_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This work is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Dartanian_Mukul.html .
```

