# Dance With Me!

_by Dominique in ** Dark Ages **_  
_A treatise on the Dances of Temuair_  

_Whether it is a lively Abel Burlesque show, a stately Loures Waltz, or a
uninhibited Fae Revel, dancing is a part of our culture. Since ancient times,
mundanes have danced to express their joy and their pain, to honor the Gods and
to achieve catharsis, and to grow closer to one another. When Deoch's spark
entered the first aisling, dancing took on so much more meaning. Our fae
brothers and sisters love to dance, and most aislings share that love. Because
of the magic in our souls, we are capable of more intense passions than our
mundane friends, and so our dances are more intense, more alive, and more
passionate than theirs are._

_The different cultures of our world have created dances of drastically
dissimilar forms, and yet, all of them are able to express emotions intensely.
Some of these dance forms are very culturally isolated, and have rarely been
witnessed outside of the culture that produced it._

## Mileth

Mileth has always been associated with spirit, specifically the aisling spirit,
and so Mileth is the best place to begin. Mileth is most famous for its
energetic Reels, where paired off couples dance in a time-honored pattern as a
group to lively violins and hand clapping. Generally at least once a moon, the
tavern is lit up with torches and paper lanterns, and mundane and aisling alike
gather to dance the Reel, drink huge amounts of Milethan Rum and enjoy
themselves.

The Mileth Reel is not the most technical of Temuair's dances, but it may very
well be the most fun. It has the distinction of requiring the least amount of
training to perform - almost any peasant can pick it up quickly. Any interested
in learning the Reel can contact Duana, the mundane who dances in Mileth
Tavern. She organizes the reel events, and will be happy to teach you a few
steps for a modest fee.

## Abel

Lively Abel is best known as a port city of immense popularity with sailors on
shore leave. Abel, having a somewhat transient population, never developed a
culturally distinct dance of its own. However, the streets of taverns, inns,
and brothels that line the docks have given rise to new innovations in the
Strip Tease. Generally speaking, the strip tease is the slow removal of the
dancer's clothing for the titillation of the audience. When I first researched
the Strip Tease, I was under the assumption that stripping is very easy to do,
and requires only a minimum of rhythm, a complete lack of modesty, and an
attractive figure. I was taught what was necessary to strip, and spent an
evening as a Stripper. I learned a number of interesting things.

First of all, drunken sailors with months of pay are very generous with their
coins, and stripping is very lucrative. Secondly, stripping offers the dancer
an illusion of control. The dancer is in control of the crowd, she can end the
dance at any time and all attention is on her. It is very addictive, and I
found myself wondering if I may have missed my calling.

The reality of it is, however, that strippers don't stay young forever. As she
ages, the coins flow less freely, and soon, a stripper finds herself with no
work. Unless she's been wise and saved, she finds herself with no money either.
It is a sad end for someone who once felt that she was in control.

## Piet

Piet is famous all over the world for its strength. It is the home of the
temple of Ceannlaidir and many great knights and heroes were born in this small
village near Loures. This strong tradition of war and valor is the basis for
the most important of Pietian dances, the Piet Fire Dance. In ancient times, the
warriors of Piet would paint their faces and dance around a bonfire to whip
themselves into a frenzy before battle, and the violent and dangerous Fire Dance
is a descendent of that.

In the Fire Dance, young warriors strip down to loincloths and dance violently
around a roaring bonfire. They drink strong liquor brewed just for this
occasion (called Fire Wine) and feast on roasted beef. As they energetically
circle the fire, they call out to the God of War and leap through the roaring
flames. Much of the time, rape occurs as the warriors allow their passions to
exceed their self-control, and many male and female warriors end up coupling.
Woe to the enemy that faces a troupe of warriors fresh off a Fire Dance. Legend
has it that the warriors are filled with the spirit of Ceannlaidir and they
enter a berserk state, becoming totally immune to pain and able to fight on
after any other living thing would be dead.

## Loures

The royal castle of Loures summons visions of gowned Princesses and Nobly
armored Knights. Once every four moons, the Royal Ballroom is decorated in
Purple and the infamous Royal Masquerade takes place. The dance of choice at
this party to end all parties is the grand Loures Waltz: a slow, measured
couple dance with precise steps and a host of formalities that must be
observed. Generally performed to the incredible works of the late mundane
composer Johann B'chos, the Waltz is amazing to watch. Thirty or more couples
take position on the Ballroom's floor and spin and weave among each other. It
takes years to learn and much practice to perfect.

The Masquerades are very exclusive, and only the most noble and privileged are
invited to attend. The amount of wealth and splendor on display is enough to
take the breath away. It is almost a shame that those who participate in this
beautiful, formal tradition don't realize how beautiful a dance it is, and how
pale and shallow the jewels, silks, satins, and powders seem when viewed
alongside it.

## Rucesion

Rucesion may have the distinction of having the most intricate and involved
dance in Temuair. The magical city of Rucesion is famous for the ballet, a
precise dance form that requires decades of practice to master. A skilled
master of this dance is often as strong as the average aisling warrior and as
agile as the slyest rogue. The ballets tell a story, and the dance is the forum
for the telling. With intricate costumes and incredible physical feats, along
with magical special effects, the Rucesion Ballet is a spectacle that I highly
recommend. Of all the dances in Temuair, the Ballet alone was one I was unable
to dance. I learned the rudiments of it, but I can see I have years of practice
ahead of me.

## Undine

Serious Undine is famous for many things. Unfortunately, Undine has no "Dance"
form to speak of. The people of Undine have long since forgotten anything as
frivolous as dance. However, using a broader definition of dancing, the
intricate martial arts forms the monks of Undine are so famous for may very
well be Undine's "Dance." Truly, no dance in Temuair has steps and movements as
formalized as the _katas_ of the animal forms practiced by the monks. The
traditional outfits of the Undine katas are the monk outfits that may be
purchased in Undine.

At my request, my friends Avice and Savannah were happy to walk me through a
few of the simplest _katas_ of the Whitebat form, and I was a bit overwhelmed.
They require incredible agility and stamina to hold some of the more awkward
positions. I know that young monks practice these stances and movements from
the time they learn the simplest ones until they die. I personally met ancient
monk _sensei_ that could barely walk, and yet were still able to flow through
movements so complex it hurt my eyes just to watch.

## Suomi

Suomi, isolated from the rest of Temuair by oceans, sweltering heat, and the
area known only as Astrid, has possibly the most private dance in Temuair, and
the one I'm most familiar with. The Suomi Belly-Dance is performed only for
masters of harems and their friends. Young girls are raised from age 7 and
trained in the sensual art of the Belly Dance. The Belly-Dance requires
incredible grace to perform, and years of training. The traditional outfit is a
variety of strategically placed, sheer, silk scarves of different colors that
may be removed in strip-tease fashion.

Deoch, God of Passion, has his temple in Suomi, and the Suomi Belly-Dance pays
homage to him. It is the dance a new bride performs for her husband on the
first night of their union. It is something of a shame that most aislings will
never be able to watch a performance of this dance, due to its private, almost
secret nature.

## Dances of the Dubhaimid

There is another type of dance that needs to be mentioned. The dark creatures
of the Castle of the Dubhaimid have their own dances. These are dark affairs
that celebrate pain, sadness, and death. The movements are horrific and the
steps are unspeakable. I witnessed a display by the Cruels and Ghasts, and was
horrified. It is a vision I wish I could forget.

## Dances of the Fae

No work on dance would be complete without mention of the Faeries that inhabit
the world around us. It is from them that we learned to dance, and they love to
dance more than any other people. Their dances are the easiest of all to
describe. The Fae dances are free of restrictions and completely uninhibited.
They let the music flow through them and move as it directs. If you ever find
the opportunity to dance with a fae, do yourself a favor and take it. It frees
your spirit!

## Conclusion

Dancing is an integral part of our society, and some aislings tend to forget
the simple cultural roots that bind us to our mundane benefactors. Dancing is a
beautiful and  enjoyable pastime aisling  and mundane alike can  participate in
and enjoy. I make it a point to dance every chance I get, and I never say no to
a dance invitation. I believe there is nothing more satisfying then to get away
from the drudgery of politics, hunting, and rivalry in order tos dance with a
loved one under the moonlit sky of the enchanted garden. The music is always in
your heart. Find your music, and come dance with me!

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Dominique_Dance.html .
```


