# Schisms of Temuairan Religion

_By Dryst in **Dark Ages**_

Although there are eight known Deities in the Temuairian world, there has been
much friction even between the followers of the same Deity. Interpretations of
their religious texts and claims of hearing the divine voices themselves have
caused some Temuairian religions to break apart into various sects. Whenever
such a difference occurs on a mass scale, scholars label this a schism. It is
impossible to cover every theological schism within the bounds of one mere
treatise so this will be a specific case study in my particular area of
knowledge, that is of the worship of Ceannlaidir.

The formalized worship of Ceannlaidir as we know it today was established
shortly after the appearance of the first warrior in Danaan 1501. The Schism
among Ceannlaidir worshippers occurred in Danaan 1980, the year of the Great
War between Danaan and Chadul. As one might expect the influence of the war had
much to do with the Schism, and in fact most of the significant religious
schisms are also marked by dates of other very influential events in Temuair.

The specific case of the Ceannlaidir religious split is also similar to most
other splits on the grounds that each sect makes an attempt to align the
worship of their Deity in closer relation to another of the Deities. However,
unlike like other Schisms, in which the sects usually divide each in favor of
one of the allied Deities, this occurrence divided the worshippers between an
allied Deity andneutral Deity. Ceannalaidir's allies consist of Fioschad and
Sgrios, however the Schism caused worshippers not to split between focusing
between those two Deities, but rather a split between Sgrios focused
Ceannlaidir worship and Gramailian focused Ceannlaidir worship.

Since each Deity represents a part of the natural Temuairian order it has
always been established that they are in all in some way related. However, the
War of Danaan 1980 for the first time called into question to Ceannlaidir
worshippers proper relation to the order. The ravaging of Temuair caused some
worshippers to be naturally inclined to associate Ceannalaidir's war centered
religion with the its inevitable result, death. In this case, similar to other
schisms, extremists would often defect to worship the allied or other chosen
Deity that they saw in closest relation to their Deity. In this particular
example a very large number of Ceannlaidir's worshippers were lost to Sgrios in
the wake of the ravaging, but an equal number remained to keep alive the
concept of Sgrios focused Ceannlaidir worship. Usually in most cases the number
of defectors is not as significant. In the case of the Ceannalaidir Schism
though the large number of deserters caused a branch of supporter for
Gramailian focused Ceannalaidir worshippers to speak out, with a surprising
number of supporters for a non-allied Deity. The theoretical explanation for
this anomaly is explained in the Temuarian War Disruption Theory, created by
the philospher Harial at the close of the Shadows War in Danaan 3171. The
argument for those of the Gramailian focus was that Sgrios relation to
Ceannalaidir is merely a relationship of byproduct while Ceannlaidir's true
relation was actually to Gramail, on account that war's relationship to law is
a reciprocating relationship, the seeking of one to produce the other. There
were few extremists on this side but some went so far as to assert that
Ceannalaidir was subservient to Gramail's purpose and defected.

The illustration of each sides reasoning provides an example here of the how
most sectarian reasoning operates. The main argument between sects usually
falls in the category of dispute among the nature of the relationships within
the religious pantheon of Temuair. Since the Pantheon is fairly open for
interpretation the main attempts to focus on the relationships between the
Deities in worshipping leads to dispute over the precise nature of their
relationships. The following are the major categories that are usually attempted
to be defined.

1. Cause and effect relationships

2 .Reciprocal relationships

3. Dominion (subservience of one Deities purpose to a higher purpose)

_Currently the most argued topic in academic debate is Dominion. some scholars
are attempting to construct a "chain of subservience" to replace the well
accepted Pantheon Model. This is highly debated over the potential religious
backlash that could occur._

This case study is designed to form an introduction into current theological
debates over Schisms and is merely an introduction mind you. Scholars at the
University in Mileth are in the process of writing more information and
analysis that should be available to the general public soon hopefully.

_Study compiled by Dryst Ravenshroud_

Believer in the Gramailian sect of Ceannalaidir worship

I part with some wisdom from the other realm...

```
> Even the most powerful can not maintain control unless they can transform
> force into right and obedience into duty."
> \- Jean-Jacques Rousseau
```
