# De Obscurité et Lumière

_by Etienne in **Dark Ages**_

_My small attempt to explain some points of Darkness and its counterpart,
Light._

## Darkness: An Element above four

As we know, after the Four Elements were ruled, wizards wrought the Fifth
Element, the one named Darkness, from which dark hearted beings came. How did
these beings come to life? Were such beings summoned from another dimension? Or
did the hands of unwise wizards create them?

Darkness, as an element in its raw state, has no form. It is like Fire: can not
be touched, has no weight, no defined shape. What separates Darkness from Fire
is the way each one is used.

Fire can be used for creation or destruction. Creation, when controlled by a
skilled blacksmith, who will use its power to forge the iron and bronze, giving
the metal life, shape, meaning. Destruction, when put to use by unskilled,
ignorant or evil hands, who will unleash the energy of the Element without any
care, letting it free to burn all that can be burned.

Darkness, like Fire, can be controlled; but unlike the latter, not completely.
First, because it has no origin like Fire does (a lump of coal or a campfire).
Darkness is not tied to any material body, thus making it impossible to raise
its strength by adding more of such matter or lower its power by removing some
of the nameless matter. This leads to the second reason: there is no way to
extinguish it. Water will cause it no damage; Air, as breeze or hurricane, will
not cease its existence; Earth, being inert, has no effect on it, nor can it be
dissolved in Darkness like in Water to make it impure. However, the element
Fire can harm Darkness, as it brings bound within it the power of the Sixth
Element, Light. But being the Light bound in Fire not of divine origin, its
effects are not as desired, thus most of the times making more harm than good
at the end.

Completing the above said, Light of divine origin can, in a way, defeat
Darkness. But allow me to remind the readers that by the time the dubhaimid
were created, the Sixth Element had not yet been discovered or controlled.
Being this so, Darkness was left with no antagonist for long.

## Living Lack of Light

Upon summoning Darkness, the unwise wizard attempts to mold the lack of Light
into a material being. However, having no way to diminish or extinguish the
Fifth Element, the wizard frees a power he can not consciously control. What
happens, then, is a "self-modeling" by Darkness itself: having its powers free,
it takes the first form it finds in its way. And this is the unconscious
control of the wizard comes into play. Darkness freed will follow the
summoner's mind and become something nearing what he or she had desired, but
yet with its own will.

Please allow me to give examples. In the days where war razed the three
kingdoms - Finach, Sarnath and Niara -, the summoning of Darkness aimed the
raising of the strength of the armies. What the wizards had in mind was the
destruction of their neighbors. So the dubhaimid born to this will were
monsters of enormous destructive power. These monsters, however, did not always
follow the commands of the wizard. This led to the death of many fool casters
of weak will.

In the first experiments, though, the wizards did not have a clear idea of what
they wanted the dark beings to do or be. Not finding a suitable shape to be
born in, Darkness did not survive for long, leaving a dead monstrosity behind
and returning to its original, immaterial state.

Some summoners, I should add, used the dubhaimid to other purposes. These dark
beings were in fact helpful every now and then, as they did "jobs too hard or
too low for humans", as is mentioned in a book from the library of Loures. But
being dark in nature, even these dubhaimid had a tendency to turn against their
summoners.

## Ancient Times

_A little piece of history to illustrate my dissertation before entering the
next part_

Free by nature and in great number by human foolishness, the dubhaimid created
the underworld, and its ruler Chadul. It is not known if the dark beings adored
or served Chadul in any way. It is known, however, that many souls were taken
into the third realm, causing Danaan to declare war on the ruler of the
underworld. Defeated, Chadul was secluded in his domains. But souls continued
to slip into the realm created by the dubhaimid.

A period of reconstruction through conquest began for the newly founded capital
of Loures, followed by its fall into darkness. The lineage of shaman empresses
somehow made the dubhaimid, who had been secluded in the underworld, struggle
for return. History books are contradictory on this subject, but its said that
the fourth empress, Ealagad, reunited the now divided kingdoms into a force
stronger than the beings of darkness, which caused these latter to seek
meanings of resurrection, thus creating monsters even worse than before.

It is said that seven spirits swore to protect Temuair from the Darkness.
Battling for a century, the dubhaimid had the advantage, until wizards from
Rucesion discovered the Sixth Element: Light. Using it, the beings of Darkness
were defeated, and lamps were spread around the cities to hold the dark
monsters behind.

## Light

_Complete contrast... or not?_

Is the relation between Light and Darkness like the one between Water and Fire?
I would certainly say no. Darkness, as mentioned before, can not be fully
controlled, and has a will of its own. It differs greatly, then, from Light
itself, not only by being antagonistic to it, but also because Light can be
created, controlled and extinguished. I use "created" here in a wide sense.
Light can be "summoned", "cast", "ignited". The real creation of Light happened
with the creation of the Universe.

How can Light be created? There are many ways. One already mentioned is through
Fire. But this light is but a small consequence of Fire, causing more harm than
good if not controlled properly, as also said earlier.

Priests invoke Danaan for Light. This Light is used mostly for healing
purposes. Elementalists call upon the stormy skies to strike their enemies with
lightning. Light in this form, although divine, is too destructive. Some might
say that this light is, as in the case of Fire, a consequence of Air and Water,
represented as the storm.

As Darkness, Light has no shape in its raw state. As Darkness, it can be
summoned. And as Darkness, it is not affected by the four first Elements. But
Light has something that Darkness has not. Goddess Danaan gave it to mankind.
Danaan, on her turn, was created with the Universe, thus making Light a
primordial element. Darkness, on the other hand, as an element, was created by
wizards, out of greed and will of conquest and destruction. Darkness does not
have a God of its own - Chadul is but the ruler of the underworld, and was not
created with the Universe.

Being this so, Light was, since the beginning, "tamed". Danaan controls it, and
she would not allow wizards to create beings of Light like they do with
Darkness. The commonplace "Light is good, Darkness is bad" does not apply.
Light can be used in destructive ways, as it was in the days where Danaan, for
some yet unknown reason, would enlighten the greedy - fortunately those days
are over, and the greedy have been punished. And the opposite stands true, too.
Darkness can be used for good purposes, although not as well, as proved by the
already mentioned dubhaimid that did little jobs, thus rivaling with some
workers and working animals. But, repeating myself here, Light have Danaan to
avoid its bad use; Darkness is free.

## Light, a bird in our cages

As it is known, after the Shadow War, our rich cities put lamps around their
streets to keep Darkness at bay. These lamps are the objects of discussion in
this small chapter. What is the _modus operandi_ of these lamps - how do they
work?

One common method is by the use of Fire, which creates light, as said two or
three times already. Burning some kind of oil, fire can last for long. However,
it produces a large amount of smoke, and would require a large investment in
oil and workers to keep the lamps of the whole kingdom lit. This leaves a
question: are the lamps of Temuair really based on Fire?

Many suspect the lamps scattered throughout Rucesion and Abel are pieces of
Light itself, made into matter. For the time being, I have been unable to tell
for sure what they are. Indeed, they last for longer than any oil could burn.
And I must add I am yet to see someone setting fire on them. This, however,
does not prove the lamps are matter made of Light.

On the other hand, if such lamps _are_ indeed the proof that Light can be made
into matter, there is a high probability it could also be made into living
beings, just like the dubhaimid. But, repeating myself, Danaan will not allow
such a thing to be done, unless in an extreme case, like a full fledged war
between mortals and Darkness, in which Darkness has a major advantage. This is
so because, if such a thing is possible, once crafted into a living being, even
Light could go out of control.

_Etienne Suarven Lorneau_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This work is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Etienne_DarkLight.html .
```
