# Economia

_by Etienne in **Dark Ages**_

_"Economia" is the Rucesian word for "economy". This is what this small text is
about: the economical aspects of our kingdom. I came across it in a pile of
miscellaneous writings of mine, from the time Light had not yet called me, and
decided to bring it outside, in hope someone can benefit from my insights. I
will read it aloud exactly the way it has been found._

_In my travels across the lands of this magnificent kingdom, I have made
many observations, which I now set together. I hope the reader finds this
collection to be of use._

## Geography

_I have divided the kingdom in five specific regions to aid in comprehension.
They are:_

### Loures

This region includes our capital city and, for environmental similarity, the
town of Piet, as well as all the smaller villages and the area around
them.

### Rucesion

Having only one city, this region is named after it. It does not include,
however, the area around that which is called the Dubhaim Castle, as any human
conducted events of any sort that might come to happen in the vicinities of
such a monstrous place is illegal and extremely dangerous. Thus, the area to
the North of Rucesion Bridge is not part of this region, or of any other.

### Abel

Despite the major focus of this region being the port city of Abel, we must not
neglect the economical potential of the town of Mileth, nor the agricultural
potential of the whole region, from the coast to the mountains. It would also
be unwise to overlook the Mines of Kasmanium - they could produce a vast
quantity of raw ore if the proper care was to be taken to bring safety to the
workers. Being this so, the region named Abel includes this city, the town of
Mileth, the Kasmanium Mines and all land worth the practice of agriculture
around them.

### Undine

This is mostly a coastal region, including the small city of Undine and
the area around it.

### Suomi

Probably the smallest region, yet somewhat odd. Includes, as well as the city
of Suomi, the fields around it, and a part of the mountains surrounding
it.

## Economic Value

_Having described each of the regions' geography, I will now move on to the
main point._

### Loures

The capital city itself is not of great economic value, as it counts with a
very small consuming population. The major production of the city consists of
weapons, sold in the castle by the same blacksmiths who forge them. This small
commerce, however, is not enough to sustain the city. So, in the last analysis,
the city of Loures is the one, which generates less revenue to our kingdom.

The city of Piet, on the other hand, is not known for its weapons, but for one
somewhat overlooked activity: the cattle breeding. Most of Loures and
Rucesion's meat comes from this town. Sheep is also common in the area, making
it the main producer of wool clothes in Temuair. And of course horses; the best
horses of the land come from Piet. In fact, the first horses of the Royal
Stable of Loures were bought in Piet.

Entering the forests of this region, one can easily find fine sorts of noble
trees, used in the construction of houses, when the use of masonry is not
possible, as well as in the making of furniture. Among the many varieties of
species found in the forest of Loures, I could cite the oak, the larch, the
peroba and the mahogany. We know these trees require very different
environments - an oak would never grow side to side to a peroba - but nature
seems to have thought about it quite well: the variations of climate in the
region of Loures along the year allow the growth of trees of tropical and
temperate climate. This is, as far as I know, an unique case of which the
kingdom most assuredly should take advantage and proper care. Most of the
kingdom's wood comes from the forests of Loures, and that is sure to bring it
to death in the not so far future. It would be advisable to install a program
of reforestation in a few years, to secure our supplies of noble wood.

Unfortunately the region has very small agriculture being practiced, probably
for lack of tradition. A few farms exist, however, which produce mostly grapes.
It is an incoherence, of course, that Loures imports most of its grapes from
Suomi. The wine produced in these farms is of very good quality, usually
surpassing those made with the grapes of Suomi or in other regions, but the
production is too small, making it unknown to most people.

### Rucesion

The city of Rucesion has made itself famous over the years by the wizards who
in it reside. Its paved walkways and bright lamps, however, are not the reflect
of a good economy, such as in Abel, but of the personal wealth of the wizards,
who financed themselves most of the improvements built in the city.

Rucesion is not to be despised, though, as it has its commerce, and an
important one. Despite not being a textile producer, the city is known for the
fine clothes its shops sell. It must also not be forgotten that only in
Rucesion one can find for sale some magical material available nowhere else.

It is also important to notice the revenue provided to the kingdom from this
city. Being the connection point between Abel and Loures, its port receives
many people and goods every day. Furthermore, the wizards are known to have
riches that would cause envy to the bourgeoisie of Abel, and this wealth does
not go untaxed.

Being on a small island, the city left no space for agriculture, except across
the Rucesion Bridge. It is unfortunate, though, as its climate seems
just what is needed to grow olives and some citrus.

### Abel

No one questions the importance of the port city of Abel to our kingdom. It is,
in fact, the largest and richest city of Temuair. Having such a high
population, Abel counts with the most varied services and products for sale in
its stores. It is impossible to define a single major production in this city,
but the main internal economic activity is the commerce. Second to the shops in
profit come the inns and taverns, always crowded with travelers. As for
external economy, it is to all known that Abel profits greatly from its port.

Near Abel is the town of Mileth, a place of simplicity and history. The
original Aosda statue of Danaan, as well as the Altar of Donation, is in
Mileth. There is also an ancient temple in the region, used by those who call
themselves Aislings. I am not quite sure about this whole thing, so I will
focus on the economic side of the city.

Whatever they may be, the Aislings have been a great benefit to the town of
Mileth, once forgotten like most of the smaller villages. There has been a
great increase in sales; the blacksmiths, inns and taverns have raised their
profits to once unreachable levels. If this goes on, I would not be surprised
to see Mileth surpass Rucesion in wealth in the next few decades. Assuming, of
course, the Aisling situation does not shift to a bad side.

Around Mileth there are small forest areas which, while not blessed like those
in Loures, present the region with a reasonable supply of wood. It is
interesting to notice, however, that none of the trees found in the region of
Abel are of the same species of those found in Loures, despite their proximity.
This happens due to the differences in weather. The chain of mountains between
the two regions prevents most of the cold sea wind from the North from reaching
Loures, while also blocking the warm air from the central sea from Abel,
rendering the region colder than Loures most of the year.

This different, yet stable climate is, when it comes to agriculture, a plus to
the region of Abel. It allows the growth of grains and cereals like soya, corn
and wheat, which are sold to the rest of the kingdom. As for the animals, a
comparison can be made with Piet. Sheep do not adapt well to the place, it is
unknown why, but horses and cows do well enough to keep this region, as well as
Undine and Suomi, away from Piet's animal ships most of the time.

Dug a long time ago, the Kasmanium Mines are today abandoned, completely taken
by all sorts of dangerous animals not even these Aislings dare facing. Their
potential, however, is unquestioned - everyone knows many chariots of ore could
come out of them, which would give an even more powerful boost to Mileth's
economy, putting its weapon production at par with Loures. To make them safe,
however, it would be needed to send a well trained army to clean the mines from
animals and monsters, which would cause the kingdom, specially Loures, more
loss than profit, not to mention the possibility of losing many lives, if not
all. So, the Kasmanium Mines remain closed.

Following the Mines examples are the East Woodlands, populated by all sort of
dreadful creatures. This is the hunting ground of many of those Aislings, and
is entirely filled with worthless trees, rendering them useless for
agriculture and extraction. This small area will bring our kingdom no good.

### Undine

The small coastal city of Undine relied mostly on the cold North Sea to sustain
itself. It has been like this for uncountable generations, until a few years
ago a disaster took place. A wizard, trying to help the fishers, took all the
fish to the land at once, nearly ruining Undine's economy. The city has only
been standing due to the support of Loures, which does not go without thanks.
Slowly the sea is recovering its life, and fishing is being made possible in
small scale. One lucky and wealthy enough person can sometimes buy a fine
codfish and have it prepared in the local tavern. I do hope the sea life
returns to normal soon, as I love codfish, but at the current price, I can do
nothing but dream of it.

As for agriculture, Undine has none. The climate is cold, the soil is
rocky and salty. Nothing worth planting grows in this region.

### Suomi

Surrounded by mountains and a small branch of barren water, Suomi has nearly no
space for growth. The population can rise, as there is enough space inside the
city boundaries, but that would prejudice the fine agriculture going on there.
The finest jewelry can be found in Suomi, but that is nearly all there is to
mention about the commerce.

The fine agriculture mentioned above is unexplainable. Suomi has severe
temperature changes during the day, due to the surrounding mountains. At
daytime, the hot air is kept over the city by the cordillera, resulting in a
very sultry environment. At night the air cools down quickly, and without any
external wind to move the cold air away, it remains there, sometimes dry as a
bone, despite the nearby sea, other times extremely humid. It is truly amazing
that Suomi is the main producer of grapes and cherries of the kingdom - those
lands must be really blessed by the gods. However, it is to be noticed that,
despite growing healthy, these cultures, specially the grapes, are not the best
thing to make a fine beverage from. The lack of rain cause them to have a very
strong taste, rendering the liquors and wines from Suomi a threat to those not
used to it.

There is a little space remaining outside the city that could be used for
agriculture, but it would most probably result in poor harvests. The mineral
potential of the mountains around the city, however, seems enough of a reason
to invest in the region, since the Kasmanium Mines are such a dangerous place.

_This short document ends here. Thank you for reading._  
_Etienne Suarven Lorneau_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

Blaise: This is an economic essay of the villages of Temuair. Discover
educated speculations on the laws of price, supply, and demand in and between
villages.

This work is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Etienne_Economia.html .
```
