# Humans

_by Etienne in **Dark Ages**_

![Shield, by Lustra](../art/Lustra_Shield.jpg)

_Many Aislings have written about the races which inhabit Temuair. Works can
be found about the Mukul, the Goblins, the Dubhaimid. Descriptions of the
intricacies of their society, religion, habits are common. But just as
Aislings study them, they must also study Aislings. I found no parchment in
the swamps, heard no lecture in the woods, came across no odd book in Loures
Library, concerning our own society as a single unity. There are descriptions
of our deities, our history, our social hierarchy, the mechanisms of our
governments, but nothing which embodies all the aspects in a concise way._

_I put myself as an outsider, then, to write these lines. If a bird could
describe our society, what would it say? This is the point of view I try to
put in this work. And I do not ask for the help of Luathas; a bird would not._


## Introduction

Finding a settlement of these creatures is not a difficult task. They make no
attempt to hide themselves: their lairs are easily noticeable for their forms
and material. They change what nature provides them to best fit their needs \-
needs which they create themselves. I speak of the beings referred by the
Goblins as "hoo-mans". I shall refer to them as "humans", as some of them call
themselves.

The humans are a race much like the Goblins or Kobolds in form: they walk on
two legs, are able to use their hands to make and use tools, wear clothes to
protect themselves from the elements and as symbol of status. They worship
higher beings, their deities and gods, which have a hierarchy of their own. And
although many traces are constant, the differences between the cultures of
humans from one region to another are easily noticed.

It is said that humans appeared some time after the Great Light arrived in this
land. The Great Light is "Danaan" for them, and the land is "Temuair", which
means "Earth-Sea" in one of their ancient languages. Where they came from is a
mystery, but their domination over the land was not difficult to notice. They
tamed nature, controlling its many elements, and spread their kind throughout
the plains of "their" Temuair - they indeed consider it theirs, despite knowing
they were not the first to inhabit it.

## Humans of Today

No human looks, acts or thinks like any other human. However, there are some
traces common to particular groups, resulting in many divisions, sub-
divisions, classes, sub-classes. The most notable division in the humans of
today is "Aislinghood". There are the "Mundanes", and the "Aislings". Some
characteristics, though, are seen in most or all humans.

They tend to group in families, tied by blood laces - a family is often formed
by a couple and their children. The human male ("man") and female ("woman"),
upon reaching a certain age, leave their parents to join one of the opposite
gender and start a new family. This is too simplistic an explanation, but it is
a common fact. It must be noted, though, that not all humans mate for life, and
some do not mate at all. This happens because there is more to mating in human
society than reproduction - there are feelings, but I dare not trying to
explain them. As a consequence of this, though, there are couples of the same
gender who live happier lives than those considered "normal" by the standards
of other races. The many mechanisms used by men and women to approach someone
will not be dealt with here, for the complexity of the subject: to explain it I
would need to write two more works: one on emotions and feelings, which I
already decided to skip, and another specifically on the mechanisms. I have no
intention of examining humans to that depth. On with it.

Death is seen as the saddest possible thing which can happen, not only to the
one parting, but also to those who remain. The one parting may be sent to
Chadul's Realm (explained later), and not even Danaan knows what happens to
this poor soul then; those who loved the parting one and remain feel for the
loss of this loved one. There are many different views of death - final glory a
warrior can achieve, end of a natural cycle, the completion of one's fate or
voyage through this world - but no matter what colorsÂ  are given to it, the
effects are the same nearly everywhere. There are ceremonies associated to the
dead body, which vary according to the region and beliefs, so they will not be
described here; after them, if any, the body is either buried, cremated, or
thrown to the sea, again depending on region and culture.

The place of residence of each family is a house - the constructions mentioned
earlier. A house can be built of wood or stone. There are "patterns" which are
followed according to the region the house is built and the wealth of the
family. All the houses of the seaside city - "city" being the name of a group
of many houses - called Abel are made of stone, while those in the nearby
village - a smaller form of city - of Mileth are made of wood, with the
exception of one, which is called "church", and has religious purposes. A city
can, in a way, be considered a tribe; in comparison to tribes of other races,
however, this definition is failed. Inhabitants of a same city do not have the
mentality of "living for the group's well being" - the idea of collective is
weak, probably because today's humans live in a constant struggle for power, be
it political or economical. The political aspects will be discussed later; a
brief explanation of the economical ones follows.

In economy, humans live in a system they call "Capitalism". The currency -
represented by round pieces of polished metal: copper, silver and gold -
simplifies the trading, as it makes the goods for goods basis optional: goods
can be traded for money (general name given to the currency), which can buy
virtually any other good. Obviously each product or service has a value in
currency assigned to it. This system also has the "salary relations of work":
the owner of a business (called employer) has people working in this business
(employees) who receive a certain amount of money in regular intervals, and/or
according to their production. As mentioned earlier, this has a consequent
impact on the idea of union: having money becomes a necessity; "easier" ways to
"earn" it result in crimes; accumulation of money by some families create
social differences - and problems - based solely on wealth. This is felt more
by Mundanes than Aislings, as the latter are able to accumulate wealth with
much greater ease.

Due to the nature of humans, where not all produce or collect their own food,
some must produce for them all. Thus there are agriculture and cattle breeding.
Agriculture consists in the cultivation of one kind of edible plant in great
quantity, while cattle breeding is the controlled raising of a race of animals
\- often cows or sheep - for the production of milk and meat. This large
production of food by some humans allows others to concentrate on other tasks;
this was one of the main reasons humans reached the position they now occupy.

The differences between Aislings and Mundanes are more apparent (or less
blurred) as the focus shifts from the economical to the social aspect. In a
metaphorical generalization, Mundanes are those who build, and Aislings are
those who fight. But this description is far from true. Some Aislings have many
Mundane habits, as all Aislings were Mundanes at first. Perhaps the difference
which stands out the most is that Aislings can choose to go on working as
Mundanes if they wish, but can also concentrate on fighting or increasing their
wisdom; Mundanes, on the other hand, are not given this option - very fortunate
is the Mundane who can live solely from hunts or the search for knowledge. As
most Aislings choose to fight, however, they must acquire their needed goods
and services from Mundanes. At the same time, Mundanes need Aislings for
protection. This results in a relation of co- dependency between the two
groups, but a good observer will notice Aislings are more dependent on Mundanes
than vice versa.


## ...and of the past

Before going any further, however, I must make the reader aware of some things
I have been and will go on mentioning, but am yet to explain. For example, why
do Aislings exist at all? The explanation is not simple, and goes back
thousands of years to the first humans to inhabit this land. Here I attempt to
write a severely simplified version of one of humans' legends - which mixes
with real history at some points, and is extremely metaphorical in others, thus
making the frontier between fact and fiction nearly void.

The first humans - the Aosda - lived in peace, until they found out about the
Earth-Sea gods and the gods of Kadath. Kadath is said to be a region of
"Darkness", therefore the gods from Kadath were not among the best of deities.
Worshipping of both lineages of gods began, but the entreaty of the dark gods
brought the Aosda to its end in what is called "The Madness". The remaining
humans struggled for thousands of years before reaching any goal. Until the
Aosdic civilization was rediscovered and glory flourished among humans again,
little progress was made in any field.

And so came Danaan, the Goddess of Light, bringing her children, today's
faeries. Humans faced the apex of their civilization in Hy-Brasyl. But as the
saying goes, "Ascension, Apex, Fall"; humans fell - Aosda was lost, peace was
lost. Natural elements tamed, greed was brought forth, power gained a meaning.
Hy-Brasyl was divided into warring kingdoms, the gods previously mentioned were
again worshipped. The elements were used in war, and Hy-Brasyl ceased to exist
completely. Centuries of more wars followed.

Let there be Darkness - the Fifth Element was discovered and used recklessly.
The Dubhaimid, beings of pure Darkness, were born, and from them, Chadul, a
creature which can be called "God of Darkness", despite not having known form
or title. Between one attack from the Dubhaimid and another, wise men saw the
problem they were in, and decided to worship Danaan again. A great battle
between the Goddess and Chadul followed, devastating Temuair. The Dark God
gained the best share, as the souls of mortals were sent to him upon death.

Humans regained their consciousness! A society was organized: a civilization,
of sorts. A puppet of Chadul - Tenes - rose to power over most of Temuair. He
unified the warring kingdoms... under Darkness and his throne. The Lords of
this union formed the League of Darkness, signing the Pact of Anaman with a
dark being. Temuair was divided among these Lords, but Despotism was fought:
Ainmeal, one aided by Danaan, faced Tenes, and conquered his capital, Loures.

Under the rule of Ainmeal and those who followed him, Temuair was supposed to
come together and fight the Dubhaimid. But some Emperors of Loures insisted in
carrying out the conquest of other kingdoms, and the battle against Darkness
was never the only one fought. Until the Shadows War came, and there was no
other choice. The advantage of Darkness was outstanding, even after Deoch,
minion of Chadul, fell in love with Danaan and betrayed his origins to fight on
her side. Humans only reached a balance in power after the Sixth Element,
Light, was discovered. Years later, the Shadows War was over, but Darkness
remained. Danaan, then, sacrificed herself to bring Chadul down - for unknown
time - and give the Light side the advantage.

Deoch, then, carried out Danaan's work of keeping the Dubhaimid - and Darkness
\- at bay. And finally, for this task, Aislings were created. Deoch does not
have Light as Danaan had, but he can give Mundanes the ability to find it. And
it was so.

_This explanation given, I can move back to the differences between Mundanes
and Aislings. It is not easy to say where the two classes diverge, but there
are points where they are not equal. Although the task of listing them is far
from simple, attempting is not a waste of time, and - I hope - of effort._

## Mundanes

The Mundanes consider themselves - and are considered by Aislings - as a lower
class. They basically live for no purpose other than their work. There are
those who forge tools, those who dwell in the trading business, those who sew
clothes, those who watch over all others. Although it is clear that there is
very little social difference between the majority of the Mundanes, when the
accumulation of wealth is discounted, there are some who seem to be above the
rest. The classification, however, is not based on strength; the titles are
often passed from generation to generation, or earned by a Mundane due to his
or her qualities (or popularity, or ability to maneuver the social mechanisms
in their benefit). A clear example of title gained by heritage is the "King",
who rules most of the land from one of the largest human built constructions of
Temuair, Loures Castle. Bruce is his name, and his power extends to at least
half of the land; he is only in his position, though, because his father was
there before him, and his grandfather before his father. On the other hand, the
Council which aids King Bruce is an example of title earned by quality; Bruce
chose those who would serve him by what they could provide him with. Jean, the
Councilor, is a wise scholar, thus fit for the position second in power only to
the King's; the Jester can make people laugh with two or three words, therefore
he has the job; the War Minister is a general known for his combat strategies
and techniques, so he controls the armies of Loures. And so on.

In this division of Mundanes one aspect is very clear: there are little or no
women in the higher hierarchy, although they occupy many important places in
the lower ranks of the Mundane society. There are examples of women who
attained the highest ranks - the Shaman Empresses who ruled as Queens in the
past being the most notable ones - but today their function is being wives or
keeping shops, taverns and inns.

Speaking of shops, taverns and inns... Shops are houses where Mundanes trades
specific goods for other goods or money. Usually one Mundane owns the shop and
the goods - which are often manufactured by him or herself - in it, and all
trade is done with this Mundane. There are cases, however, where shops also
serve as a "gathering point" for those who wish to trade something; in this
case, the shop owner provides the space for the trading to take place.

A tavern is not a common shop. The goods it sells are mostly inebriating
beverages, usually produced by the fermentation of other beverages. Humans
(mostly men) drink these beverages in greater or lesser degrees, depending on
what they seek. The socialization and the search for fun require little
drinking; groups of men gather in the taverns to drink and chat, away from the
problems presented by their families or work. Those there are, though, who use
the temporary state of lack of contact with reality ("being drunk", as they
say) caused by the ingestion of too much beverage to flee from their problems.
This, however, puts the human consciousness to doubt: once the effect is gone,
the problems are back, time has been lost, and it is probable that the person
in question will try "escaping" again the same way: a cycle few have broken,
and which only gets worse with time.

The inn is the simplest of shops. It is a large construction divided in many
rooms, all prepared for one person or more to spend a night with some basic
comfort. The patron pays a set price and has the right to use one of the rooms
until the next morning. When traveling to cities other than the one of their
residence, humans often find themselves resorting to inns for safety and rest.

Mundanes "produce" little "culture". They lack in imagination, so it is
difficult for a Mundane to write a novel or a treatise on something, as well as
painting a picture or composing a song. Some Mundanes, however, have abilities
which surpass the commonness. The Wizards are some of these uncommon Mundanes:
they are able to tap into the elemental powers of nature, in a degree lower
than that reached by Aislings, but much higher than the vast majority of
Mundanes reach. There are also the Apostles, who can to communicate directly
with the higher beings the humans worship. Healers, as Wizards, can use natural
powers, but their goal is curing. Some Mundanes can train themselves to become
master Warriors or Rogues, too, but their abilities are again easily surpassed
by most Aislings.

## Aislings

Aisling is a Mundane who received the "Spark of Deoch", which gives creativity
to the recipient. Deoch is one of the eight deities humans worship. Why some
Mundanes are granted the Spark and some are not is a mystery. The exact changes
which happen to a Mundane when he or she receives the Spark are unknown, but it
is clear that they become stronger, wiser, and can improve their abilities
beyond that of the best trained Mundanes. Most Aislings have the creativity to
write novels, treatises, paint pictures. All of them are much more powerful
than the average Mundane, even when only a simple Peasant.

Peasant... Like many beings evolve and change their forms throughout their
lives, Aislings, too, have steps to take. Once they receive the Spark, they are
Peasants. Experience in hunting or learning from other Aislings or Mundanes
grants them more knowledge, more strength. The first step Aislings must take is
a decision which will affect the course of their entire lives: they must choose
a "Path". Once a decision is made, the Aisling must find one already following
the path of his or her choice to be initiated into it - this person will be the
Aisling's Guide. Aislings can be of five major "Paths", in no particular order:
Warriors, Wizards, Rogues, Priests and Monks.

### Warriors

A Warrior is one who uses mostly brute force, relying very little on any skill
other than the swing of a sword. They are easily recognizable for their metal
armors, which provide the protection they need when facing their enemies.

### Wizards

Wizards are those who control one or more of the four basic elements of nature,
which humans divided in Earth, Water, Air and Fire. Their power is in their
minds, not their muscles - in fact, most tend to be very weak physically. Their
clothes represent solely their status, their power; as they do not go into
close combat, protection is not a necessity.

### Rogues

Skillful Aislings, swift, dexterous, quick. Rogues are those who rely the most
on their imaginations and ability to put their ideas to practice. Their hands
are the only ones capable of polishing a gem or giving a new look to the hair
of other Aislings. Their hunting techniques are very odd: they provoke a
creature, usually by throwing some sort of knife at it, and run, setting traps
along the way; the creature walks over these traps and is hurt. The simple
setting of a trap requires much skill, and Rogues do this with enemies running
after them, in any terrain, and always hiding the trap so no one can see it.

### Priests

Priests dwell in the "Sixth Element", Light. They are healers, basically, but
can also use light to cause damage or put enemies to sleep, among other things.
Their purpose is not mainly fighting, although they seem to be invaluable in
battles. Priests hold most of the religious tasks of humans.
More on religion will follow.

### Monks

A Monk can be said to be a sort of Warrior, but this definition is wrong. Monks
are very strong and dexterous, but do not use weapons. They rely on nature for
most of their needs, and are able to prepare potions against most ailments.
Monks also know some natural magic, but nothing comparable to the
elemental or light spells of Wizards and Priests.

As the reader can see from these brief descriptions, Aislings as a whole are
basically meant to fight, even if some classes focus on other things. Being
this so, rare are the Aislings who rely on Mundane tasks, such as agriculture
or trade, for their maintenance. As mentioned earlier, though, not all Aislings
fight. Some prefer to use their Spark to increase their wisdom, or to make
better equipment and tools for other Aislings, or even dedicate themselves
completely to a deity. One way or another they will progress in Aislinghood; if
not by learning more battle techniques, then by creating works which will
enlighten the lives of Mundanes, who will in their turn reward the Aisling for
it with prestige and money. Other than these rewards given by Mundanes,
Aislings can collect many things from the places where they fight, and also
produce many other things themselves, which they can then sell for money to the
Mundanes.

Although Aislings do not work like Mundanes do, all make use of the services
provided by Mundanes. Aislings have their equipment repaired by Mundanes, sleep
in inns owned by Mundanes, buy food from Mundanes, drink in taverns ran by
Mundanes. They also require the assistance of the "lower class" when dealing
with bureaucratic issues such as politics, but the greatest sign of dependency
is that all the Aislings techniques and spells are taught by Mundanes - and
without a spell or fighting technique, an Aisling is not much.

Something which must be noted about Aislings is that, beyond the initial Guide,
the Aisling chooses a Mentor, who does not have to be of the same Path, and can
be the same one who guided him or her into the Path. While a Guide's job is
teaching the Aisling about the Path, a Mentor's job is teaching the Aisling
about the human culture of Temuair. Mentorship is a strong bond between the
Mentor and Mentee, and lasts for a lifetime.

_I assume the reader is familiar enough with humans by now. I will move on to
those above them._

## Religion: Beyond Humans

In my shameless exposition of humans' history, I mentioned the worship of gods.
Here they are explained, up to an extent. The Temuairan pantheon consists of
Danaan, Chadul, and other eight deities, called either Temuairan (Earth-Sea)
Gods or Aosdic Gods, as it is said they were part of the original Aosda
civilization. The majority of humans worship Danaan, Goddess of Light - it can
be said "for safety", as Danaan represents Light, therefore can save humans
from Darkness. A few worship Chadul, for one reason or another. Under these two
come the other eight, each representing a concept. They are disposed on an
octogram, and there are many relations between them - allies, enemies,
opposites, trinities. Discussing these intricacies is beyond the purpose of
this work, so here is a very basic explanation of each of them, in no
particular order.

_Deoch_ \- God of Debauchery and Creativity. As said earlier, the creator of
all Aislings is a minion of Chadul who fell in love with Danaan, forsaking his
nature and master. He is inconstant, fast paced, mutable.

_Ceannlaidir_ \- God of War, lives for the beauty and honor of the battle, even
if his followers think in other ways. The patron of Warriors seduced Glioca,
and from this "love" Cail was born.

_Glioca_ \- Goddess of Love, daughter of Danaan. The only woman among the eight
deities represents love in all its forms: passion, compassion, pure love.
Glioca watches over all Priests, regardless of their affiliation.

_Cail_ \- God of Nature, son of Glioca and Ceannlaidir. His father forbade him
from using weapons, fearing the son would be stronger than the God of War. Cail
lives in as close contact with the wilderness as possible - as an example, his
feet are always bare, so he can always be in touch with earth. Monks, who
follow the ways of Cail, do exactly the same.

_Fiosachd_ \- God of Wealth and Chance. The most human like of the eight,
Fiosachd, patron of Rogues, puts material possession above all else, and will
do whatever it takes to increase his, "as long as his honor is kept", some say,
but others counter with "as long as he is not caught". He learns the rules so
he can find ways to use or break them for his gain. It is said he was cast out
of the Aosda and wandered the world for many years before being accepted back.

_Gramail_ \- God of Law and Justice. The least prestigious of gods dwells in
the justice of humans, although some say he represents the natural laws as
well. Strict and solid as a rock, Gramail watches over Loures... and that is
all.

_Luathas_ \- God of Gnosis, represents both divine and human knowledge and
wisdom. Luathas is the one above all Wizards.

_Sgrios_ \- God of Decay and Destruction, and personification of the former.
Sgrios is the gatekeeper of Chadul's Realm, and feeds on the souls of dead
beings. Some say he is an evolved form of Dubhaim, but no human is certain
about the origins of this creature - only of the fear it causes on
them.

With the exception of the Apostles, who can communicate with the deities, no
Mundane seems to worship any god other than Danaan. On the other hand, the
Church of Danaan is ran by a Mundane Priest, and is not officially followed by
any Aisling. This church is somewhat dogmatic, as there is no concrete proof of
its contact with the Goddess of Light. Some believe that, in order to worship
Danaan, one does not need a church or priest, but only one's faith and devotion
to Light. This probably only works in the case of Danaan, as her church
provides no palpable rewards for its followers. For the other eight deities,
there is no way to gain their favor other than being a member of their
fellowships, so the idea of faith needing no channel is quickly made void.

As said, the fellowships of the eight deities are ran by Aisling Priests, in a
simple hierarchy: a High Priest above all, then two or three degrees below is
the Priest who just joined the sect. The hierarchy varies from sect to sect,
but generally it is presented this way. There may be councils and divisions
inside the fellowships. Other Aislings are always in the first step a Priest
takes, but cannot go further.

Due to the reward given by the deities, it is impossible to judge an Aisling
simply by his or her fellowship. Common are those who follow a particular deity
to acquire specific favors from the god, while not believing in the god's ways
at all. If humans really acted in accordance to what they think, the fellowship
of Fiosachd would be the most numerous of Temuair.

_This asks for another topic._

## Politics: The inhuman

The government of humans is again divided between Mundanes and Aislings. They
are two completely different systems, in fact.

Mundanes live in a "static" political situation. Loures is a monarchy - a
single ruler -, and reigns over great part of Temuair. The other cities either
have no apparent government, or are governed by a Burgess - the same, for
uncountable years, such as Aricin of Abel; a monarchy in disguise, of course.
There are no written laws in the cities ruled by Mundanes: it is assumed that
all know the basic laws and that Aislings follow them as well. When some
unusual directive is put to play, such as the prohibition of weapons in the
city of Undine, Mundane Guards are assigned to make sure the order is followed
by all.

Of all the human cities of Temuair, two are ran by Aislings: Mileth and
Rucesion. The system is very different from that of the Mundanes. It is not a
monarchy, neither explicit nor in disguise; it is a "democracy" of sorts.
Leaders and law upholders are chosen by the people, but not through a majority
of votes gathered by a certain number of candidates; instead, it is much like a
popularity contest: those who can gather the support of a set number of
Aislings are eligible to office for a previously defined period. Due to this
highly competitive nature of the political system of Aislings, it is common
seeing it lead them to fierce political battles, where everyone loses, the city
suffering the most. It makes one wonder if politics should not be left only to
Mundanes. In a way it is, because even the highest authority of an Aisling ran
city is still under a Mundane Burgess - and Mileth and Rucesion both have one.

Cities ran by Aislings have laws written and voted by them and enforced by
Aisling Guards. It is odd that Mundanes do not need a written code, while some
Aislings must be _forced_ to behave and will only abide to any order after it
is made legal and the punishment is proven real.

Hierarchy. The Aisling political society is divided this way:

### Commoners

_Citizen:_ Has the right to support someone seeking office and of
protection by the laws of the city. These rights are also possessed by all
above this position.

_Respected Citizen:_ The first step into the political arena, this
resident was recognized as respectable and a model citizen. Respected Citizens
are allowed to admit new Citizens into their city of residence.

### Legislature

_Demagogue:_ The first instance of law-making officials. The group of
Demagogues writes, discusses, and passes the law proposed to or by themselves.
They have the power to permanently exile anyone who does not have political
support from the city where they act.

_Burgess:_ Above the Demagogues are the Burgesses, in much smaller number. A
Burgess accumulates all the work and power of the Demagogues, and must
coordinate the Demagoguery as well.

### Judiciary

_Guard:_ Uphold the laws, make sure about the safety of Citizens, prevent
crimes, solve minor criminal issues. They have the power to temporarily banish
anyone from the city where they act.

_Guard Captain:_ Coordinate, serve as model, mentor and helper of Guards, carry
out investigations on other officials, solve criminal issues a Guard cannot
deal with.

_Judge:_ The top position of the Judiciary puts criminals to trial, appoints
punishments, and solves major criminal issues.

Since trials were mentioned, humans carry them out this way: if someone commits
a crime which cannot be properly dealt with by Guards or Captains, is too
hideous to be punished with banishment or exile, or has details not foreseen in
the laws, the suspect is brought to trial. In a trial, there is the accusing
party, against the suspect, and the defending party, in favor of the suspect.
Both parties present their reasons why the suspect is or is not guilty, and a
group of citizens votes to determine if the suspect is indeed guilty of the
accusation or not. In case a positive answer is given by a majority, the judge
issues the sentence; otherwise, the suspect is free to go.

### Conclusion

Conclusion? This is just a general overview of humans. All the facts, some
theories and many opinions are exposed here. There is not much to conclude.
Humans are one of many races of this world, despite thinking of themselves as
the most important one. This work's goal is simply defining the very basic
aspects of humans and their society the ways they define other races. If I
succeeded it is yet to be discovered. May the humans and their deities forgive
me for this.

_Etienne Suarven Lorneau_
_Grinneal 35394, 1st Moon_


```
*Librarian Notes*

Blaise: This is a thoughtful, integrated humanities essay about the societies,
economies, politics, and history of humans.

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Etienne_Humans.html .
```


