# PÃ©nombre

_by Etienne in **Dark Ages**_

_Thirty years have passed since I wrote De Obscurite et Lumiere , my treatise
on Light and Darkness. Aislings were but a seed at the time, and the power of
the two higher Elements had not yet been unleashed. Certainly, they both had
been used in endless wars before the Sacrifice, but never in the scale in which
Aislings, now in great number and carrying great experience, use them, and
guide their lives by them._

_It is time I again write of Light and Darkness. With greater knowledge and
more consolidated positions, I feel my original work no longer covers enough of
the two Higher Elements. I write this not to replace De Obscurite, of course,
and repeating all I already said there would be rather pointless. That does not
mean, however, this present work cannot be understood without previous
knowledge of the first one: no, no, it does stand on its own, as much as I
could bring it to. See for yourself._

## Origins

Although in _De Obscurite_ I clearly state Light has existed since the
beginning of the Universe, and Darkness was created by Wizards of Temuair, I no
longer believe it is simple as that.

First, it must be noted these two Elements are different from the other four.
Srad, Creag, Sal and Athar are natural Elements of our land, they have always
been there for anyone to harness. Light and Darkness, on the other hand, could
not have their powers controlled before Wizards found the means to it. Even
now, for a Wizard to use a Dubh spell the training endured greatly surpasses
that meant to control one of the four elements; the same applies for Deo, in
the case of Priests.

This is so because Light and Darkness have no original physical manifestation.
They both have existed since the beginning of the Universe, yes, but they could
never before be touched by human hands. That is why making direct use of these
elements is so exhausting to spell casters: it is not simply a case of making
water splash around or earth rise; one must first bring Light or Darkness from
its initial, non-physical stage to something that can indeed act upon the
physical world, and only then control this very ephemeral manifestation to do
their binding.

Having said that, I believe the origins of the two Higher Elements are now
clear: they did exist since the first moment of the Universe, but we could only
tap into their power once they were made tangible, once they had a physical
manifestation for us to control. That was the ?discovery? of Light and
Darkness: Wizards found a way to touch what had existed since days forgotten by
Grinneal itself.

## Physical Manifestation

It is a wonder, when we look at it, that the very first tapping into the higher
Elements? power brought forth a living creature, a Dubhaim. Those Wizards
barely knew what they were doing, when they forged Darkness into a material
form, yet they created living creatures from the start. Of course, the first
creatures were so horrendously deformed they lived mere moments. But it did not
take the Wizards long to give life to what we now call Dubhaimid: dark beings
of great strength and even some intelligence.

Why did they not create a dark sword, for example, or some other dark object
that would be useful in the war they fought? Today, it takes a tremendous
amount of power for an Aisling Wizard to harm an enemy with Dubh in its lesser
form; summoning a living creature made of this Element, without using Sgrios?
powers, is yet to be seen!

 _Please notice the assumption here: the lesser Dubh spell I refer to is
Strioch Bais. However, we know very little of the Strioch spells: only that it
is a glyph from the Aosda, as Kiril, Dark Wizard of Undine, tells us. Since the
damage caused by it is very similar to that caused by Dubh spells cast by some
Dubhaimid, it is generally accepted that Strioch Bais (not Mor Strioch Pian
Gar, let it be clear) is also a Dubh spell._

Another point to be considered lies with Light. When Wizards got a hold of the
Sixth Element, they did not create any living being out of it! Why, in the case
of the Fifth Element, Darkness, the one thing they made with it was living
beings, and were overrun by then afterwards. Why did they not create Light
beings?

I counter my own question in two ways, one already in my original work.

 Chadul is regarded as the God of Darkness, the direct nemesis of Danaan,
Goddess of Light. However, Chadul was created by the Dubhaimid, therefore long
after Wizards first made use of Darkness. Danaan, on the other hand, existed
before the chaining of Light. It is possible, then, as I say in _De Obscurite_
, that Danaan prevented the physical manifestations of Light from gaining life.
Darkness, however, had no deity watching over it until Chadul was created;
therefore any manifestation of it was free to gain a mind of its own.

The second possibility, unfortunately, has no more proof to its name than the
previous one. It is feasible that Wizards feared what Light could do. Yes,
feared. They created Dubhaimid, and the first of them were in fact helpful to
the Wizards, but soon went rampant and caused great destruction. What if Light
did the same? What if a living creature of Light simply turned its back to the
Wizards and attacked them as well? Or if it went madly after the Dubhaimid, and
ravaged the land in its way to reach its goal, destroying anything that stood
in its path, in the process? The fighters of the Shadows War surely had no
intention of battling in two fronts, against two infinitely superior enemies;
and the same applies to being caught between two immensely powerful armies that
fought with no regards for what was below them.

In either case, both possibilities bring the same doubt. Be it by Danaan's
prohibition, or by the Wizard's fear, no living creature of Light, a
'Deoaimid' was born. What would be the consequence of such a creation? Would
it not indeed act the very same way as a Dubhaimid?

## The Deoaimid?

In our Woodlands, a very common creature is the Wisp. What, after all, is a
Wisp? They surely do look like small shiny dots of light. Could they be some
kind of Deoaim? If they are, seeing as they are hostile, it could cause a
revolution in the way we see Light and Darkness.

 Some may argument there is another kind of Wisp, the Unseelie Wisp, found in
the Macabre Studies scattered across the Graveyards near Tagor. These critters
are black, and float like the white Wisps of the Woodlands. I think their
family ties are not very tight, however: Unseelie Wisps are a black floating
flame, and upon their death a dark lifeless flame is left behind. White Wisps
clearly are not a flame of any sort, and leave no part of their body behind.

But what brings the Wisps closer to the Dubhaimid than any other creature?
Suppositions, that is all. It is impossible to say for sure. I could theorize,
for example, that Wisps are Deoaimid, but not as ?evolved? as the Dubhaimid:
they draw their power from natural elements to attack us; they have no defined
form (they are a dot of Light) and they simply disappear upon death ? perhaps
to return to the non-physical manifestation of Deo? ? while Dubhaimid have a
glimpse of Dubh in their attacks, most of them have humanoid shapes, and their
remains can often be recovered after their death.

 draw no conclusion. There are no facts to back the idea that Wisps are a
lesser form of a hypothetical Deoaim. In actuality, the very existence of the
Deoaimid has no facts behind it. I find nothing to deny the possibility,
however; my belief remains.

## Strioch Bais & Deo Saighead

Putting aside the living creatures made of the two higher Elements, we return
to the spells which make use of Light and Darkness. In the case of Light,
however, I do not refer to healing spells: these seem to have a _modus
operandi_ that greatly differs from the simple transmutation of a non- physical
Element to a physical form.

_Another note here to explain that, how healing spells differ from attack
spells made of Light ? in the case, ioc and Deo Saighead. Being a Wizard
myself, I am not entirely familiar with ioc, but it does not seem to have a
direct effect on wounds: rather, it will cause the body to heal itself, using
the energy provided by the spell instead of that commonly obtained by the
organism. The Inner Fire of Monks, for instance, accelerates the natural
process of healing, using the body?s own energy, and it has continued effect;
ioc has immediate effect, and uses the energy of the casting Priest to mend the
wounds ? as if the body retrieved energy from a different, much more powerful
source, for that brief moment. I hope that was clear enough._

With that explained, let me return to Deo Saighead. When this spell is cast,
Light is taken from its original form, and made tangible, physical, for an
instant. That is the twirl we see when Deo Saighead is used. The physical
spiral of Light cuts through the enemy, causing some damage. This spiral is
imbued with Light, naturally, and is thus greatly powerful, the same energy
used for healing in ioc being used for damage in Saighead ? funny how all
Elements can be used for both good and bad purposes, no? Srad, Fire, is
probably the best example: heats you in a cold winter?s night, burns down your
house. Proper control makes such a big difference. But, back to our previous
point.

Let us take, now, Strioch Bais, our Aosdic Glyph of destruction, the Dubh spell
of Aislings. A very interesting star-shaped figure envelops the target; all the
caster?s mana is spent, and Darkness hurts the enemy deeply.

Why does Deo Saighead produce a random twirl, while Strioch Bais comes as a
perfect geometrical figure? Not known. It might be heritage of the Aosda, since
the Dubh spell has its origins in it. Or Wizards are better trained in the
offensive spells field, while Priests do not have enough experience in that use
of magic to give it a defined shape. It is not to be said that the Deo Saighead
spiral is inefficient, however: although not the most aesthetic of spells, it
is impressive. And, the most curious aspect of all: it is Light being used to
harm.

## Good vs. Evil?

I am certain this chapter was rather predictable, both for the contents of this
work, and the parallel I trace between Darkness and Light in my first work. The
argument, too, is rather obvious: if both Light and Darkness can be used to
cause damage, and assuming living creatures could be born out of the two
elements (and go rampant, as the Dubhaimid), what would differ Light from
Darkness?

One edition of the Seanchas Temuair, a parchment from the early years of Deoch,
brought some interesting verses in one of its first pages:

> _Sometimes we barely tell  
> The difference  
> Between darkness and light_

And all known editions of the same text end with the sentence which has become
the most overused cliche of our land: _Every light casts a shadow_.

Whoever compiled our history into the Seanchas seemed to have views similar to
what I present here. However, in spite of the historical text being
consolidated, I will not make use of this safe harbor to back up my points. No,
that is too easy. And, after all, Seanchas Temuair is factual history
throughout most of its paragraphs; this work is supposed to be a discussion on
the theme.

Is Light good, and Darkness evil? No.

Having put aside the onus of that affirmation, let me explain it. I, as an
Aisling, and like most rational mundanes, live under Danaan and the Light; and
I fear Chadul, and have seen what Darkness can do. In past wars, the Dubhaimid
ravaged the land; those not killed had their minds twisted. Horrible, horrible.

But let me trace a parallel here. What if the Wizards of the time, instead of
researching the fifth Element, decided to magically enhance the Kobolds to
fight in their war - and those powerful Kobolds went rampant and turned against
the Wizards? Would we today fear the "Koboldness"? Would we have Castle
Koboldhaim in the Isle of Dawn? And maybe we would have won the war against
Koboldness by use of an army of magically enhanced Goblins! Except we did not
commit the same mistakes and tamed them well before giving them too much power.

Perhaps this is not the best analogy, but it should be remembered Darkness only
became an antagonist after the Wizards gave form to the Dubhaimid: before that,
our wars were fought among the split pockets of survivors from the fallen
Hy-Brasyl, and most disgraces derived from the worship of Kadath. Darkness had
no part in our play until we gave it a paper. We lacked a true villain in our
little story, and Darkness filled the role. Would Light not do the same, had it
been discovered before?

This might surprise some, but I doubt it would. Not that I believe in any
infinite benevolence of the Sixth Element, no. But I believe we have greater
affinity with Light, and that is the full extent of our reason to see it as
good, and Darkness as evil. The methods of Light cause us less damage - and
that is all.

Is water, Sal, evil to a bird? Throw a sparrow in the river and see for
yourself. Take a fish from that river and throw it up in the air. Is Athar evil
to the fish? Both questions accept a yes for answer. A simplistic example, no
doubt, but I believe it illustrates the point well, in spite of Light and
Darkness being Higher Elements. Humans do not dwell in the chaos of Darkness
because we were born to live in Light ? or grew used to it. And the Dubhaimid
hide from the sun in the shadows of their castle, and the bird drowns in the
fish?s sweet home.

## Danaan, the one who got there first

It is imperative that we remember the history of Temuair, back from before it
was named Temuair. Although records are nearly non-existent, it is known we had
over 32 thousand years of civilization before Danaan arrived. That is the era
of Grinneal, and the great Aosda was part of it.

A century later our world had its rebirth under Danaan, with the founding of
Hy-Brasyl, the City of Gold. This was the beginning of the Light civilization.
Aosda was completely lost in another eight centuries, and Hy- Brasyl, founded
in the era of Danaan, became the model of perfect civilization ? perfect, and
driven by Light.

I hope my point is clear by now. Aosda needed no Light or Darkness, no Danaan
or Chadul, to be the most advanced culture of known history. Then Danaan
arrived, and took the scales off balance. Hy-Brasyl was founded in that
imbalance - the same imbalance in which we lived the last three thousand years,
always doing our best to keep Darkness away. In the occasions it emerged, as
all things kept locked down for too long, it was explosive, destructive,
vindictive? We pushed it back and returned to Light.

The other side of this imbalance coin would probably be, in my view, the Chaos
Pits, found under the mountains of Pravat. That, I believe, is the true
representation of a world where Darkness predominates - as opposed to ours,
where Light has the upper hand. Not even Dubhaim Castle comes close to the
chaotic, horrendous nightmare an Aisling faces in the depths of the Pits.

Obviously, then, a question arises: how would a Porboss from the Pits feel if
it was brought to the surface ? or, let me push it even further, to Hy-Brasyl
itself? Without a doubt, not comfortable at all, probably a very similar
feeling to what we face while in its home.

In another simplistic analogy, I would say it is similar to what we face when
we stand in the sun for too long then walk into a very dark room. Or the
contrary: stay in the dark for too long, then go out under the sun. Nothing is
visible, moving about is complicated, things seem to get in our way on purpose
so we bump into them. Such is the case of Temuair: it stood under the sun for
too long; now in the slightest shadow its sight is hindered, it bumps into
things, curses them, kicks randomly, and turns back.

That is the result of thousands of years under the Light of Danaan: we lost
touch with and knowledge of Darkness, and now we fear it. And this dooms us to
forever fight it, and never reach the point of Aosda. We live in imbalance: we
can go on trying to maintain it, desperately keeping Darkness outside while we
hold on to Light, the two distant as ocean and desert. Or we can stop fighting
over an unnatural division, and return to the balance in which Aosda bloomed,
where Darkness and Light are one and the same. That is the Twilight. That is
Penombre.

_Etienne Suarven Lorneau_  
__31st year of Deoch_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original has unfortunately been lost, and is reconstructed from old copies here.
```
