# Ridireacht (Chivalry)

_by Etna in **Dark Ages**_

_The code of conduct for a true warrior_

## Foreword

I have crossed oceans, rivers, forests, crypts, graveyards, mines, and more. I
have explored the deepest depths of the Cthonic Realm, Defeated the Creants,
studied the arts of a Gladiator, and mastered the art of a Warrior. I have been
recognized for my faith to Sgrios, Anaman, Chadul, and the Pact. I have been
recognized for my passion for teaching, and my exploration into the realm of
History. My theories and practices have allowed me to lead a guild to success,
become a Knight of Loures, and a Ranger. I have risen from the poor to the
rich, ascended from commoner to nobility, from novice to one of the most
accomplished people in Temauir.

You may think this is impressive, but I am not satisfied. And neither do I feel
I ever will be satisfied with the things I have accomplished. I yearn for more.
I reach my hand into the blackness of my heart, the darkness of my mind, and
strive for the unseen. I seek my Lord, Chadul. But I am his champion, and so I
stay here, and influence the world of Aislings, seeking what he needs to
awaken. I am forever in his servitude.

Long and tiresome it has been; The next step in my journey to accomplish what
he seeks of me. Whereas before I was merely gaining physical prowess, now I go
on a journey of the mind. This is all that I can give the Aisling world; My
innards spilled, my philosophies known. This is a compilation of teachings from
those who have mentored me, and realizations that I have had to come to on my
own. This is the pathway to being a true Warrior of Chadul and Sgrios, and
bringing glory to his name. This is the path that I have followed to success.

## The Virtues

The way of the warrior is typically not spoken nor written. The true way of a
warrior is passed down from generation to generation. However, the seasons have
changed, and now we have many people who cannot come to these truths because
these masterful warriors have long passed away.

The way of Sgrios is Destruction and Decay. To be true to him in the path of
the Warrior is simple enough. Warriors are trained killers. It is their destiny
to slay their opponent in melee combat. This interacts well with Ceannlaidir,
God of Battle, who teaches us honor and discipline. Our skills become honed and
we master the arts of combat. We also interact well with Deoch, who inspires
us, and gives us motivation.

And Chadul, our slumbering Lord. In his service, we inspire chaos, destruction,
massacre, and frenzy. We borrow his power to become unstoppable killing
machines. We align with the Dubhaimid and slay those who would oppose us. The
dark element feeds our bloodlust. And so, to appease our Lord for these gifts,
we should learn to be good retainers.

The true way of the Warrior lies in the faith I have in my trinity and in my
Lord Chadul. Our teachings allow us to not be wasteful, to be loyal to our
Lords, and to master the art of battle. Our teachings allow us to take honor in
death.

In any path, one may disgrace themselves in any given way. It is unfortunate
that many people become dishonorable. The way of a Sgrian or Chadulite Warrior,
however, teaches honor in death. By committing ritual suicide for the gods, you
regain the honor you may have lost. Aislings may be hard-pressed to stay dead,
but the Lords appreciate the gesture just the same. Ritual suicide is also the
way of another culture -- the Hwarone warriors. Should they disgrace their
masters, they commit suicide in honor of them. It is an act of bravery
appreciated by true masters of this way.

Above all, one should always be preparing for death.

In my meditations, I found that there were seven virtues, above all else, that
should be stressed on a constant basis. These are virtues that every warrior
should live by.

1. Rectitude. Moral rightness, to sum it up quite simply -- "fighting the
good fight."

2. Courage.

3. Respect.

4. Honesty.

5. Honor.

6. Glory.

7. And above all else, loyalty.

## The Meditations

In my journeys to find the true way, I came upon many realizations. As I came
to these, I put forth my earnest effort into writing them as well as I could.
These are the transcribed meditations that I have gathered. They reflect the
teachings of generations of Sgrians and Chadulites, as well as the teachings
that I have developed for my own apprentices.

These passages are good to meditate on yourself. As such, I welcome you to look
into your mind, and seek the truth for yourself.

The way of a Temuairian warrior is found only in death. When the time comes
that you must decide, the way of death is the simplest choice. Be steadfast and
advance in your task. A wise man once said, "To die without reaching one's aim
is a dog's death," and it is partially true. However, when confronted with the
choice of living or dying, reaching your aim is not even part of the picture.

All Aislings, to some extent, want to live. We live and think in accord with
what we like. To not reach one's aim could be called cowardice. To die without
reaching your goal is a dog's death, however, there is no shame in this. This
should be the substance of your life as a warrior. Truly living and regarding
oneself as dead grants you freedom in the way of the warrior. Your life shall
be without blame, and you shall succeed at your calling.

To give a person your thoughts, and attempt to correct their faults is a noble
thing. It is compassionate and should be most prevalent in the service of a
master. However, it goes without saying that doing this can be difficult. To
find a fault in a person is easy. Telling them of their fault is easy, too.
Sometimes, people will think they are kind for saying the things that other
people find unnecessary or hard to say. But if the person cannot receive his or
her fault well, there is no gain in telling the recipient. It is merely
bruising one's ego or reputation, and getting it off your chest.

To correctly give a person your opinion you should gauge whether the person is
able to receive it well or not. You must be trusted and respected. Approach
common interest points and seek the best way to speak and be understood. Judge
the occasion -- find out if it is better to tell him by letter or in private.
Encourage your recipient. You may want to touch on your own faults without
touching on his, but so that they will occur to him. Have the person receive
your opinion in the way that a man with a long thirst would receive a mug of
ale, and it will be an opinion well received and understood.

But it is still difficult. If this is something that has been established for
quite some time, such as a heretic nature, it stands a good chance to not be
remedied. If you merely insult the recipient, how you could expect them to
become a better person because of it?

At the time when a guild met to determine the promotion of a man to council,
the men were at the verge of deciding that the promotion would not go through
because the man had once been caught sleephunting. But someone spoke up for the
nominee, saying "If we were to turn aside every person who makes a mistake, we
would be standing here old and grey without a new council member
to be found."

It was then that another spoke up, and inquired, "Can you be sure that he will
make a good council member?"

The man replied, "I am positive."

The others asked, "How can you be sure that he will not bring shame on our
guild?"

And he replied, "I know he will work with us well because he is a man who has
erred once. A man who has never erred is dangerous."

This said, the man was granted the position of council.

I once met a man who said, "So-and-so the gladiator is generally known to be
very argumentative and violent, but I said this right to his face anyway..."
This was a foolish thing to say. It was stated merely because he wanted to be
known as a strong fellow who could stand his own ground. Some may call it
immature. It is because a Warrior has correct manners that they are admired.
Speaking of other people in this manner is no different than a conversation
between peasants, and brings shame upon you.

It is said that even a medenian mundane could write Aisling literature if only
he were to study the existing entries and put forth good effort into imitating
them. An apprentice will become great, too, if she puts forth effort into
imitating her mentor.

These days, however, there are few good mentors to be found. Since this is so,
it would be wisest to make a model mentor and learn from that. To do so, you
should simply look at a number of people and pick their best quality from each.
For example, one person for his or her hunting ability, another for his
bravery, and a third for his wisdom and intelligence. This way, the model will
be forged.

A student will often not receive a teacher's good points and will instead
receive and act upon their bad ones. There are people who are good at manners,
but have no presence or backbone. In imitating someone like this, a person may
ignore the politeness but only imitate the lack of presence or backbone,
thinking it is the correct way. If one thinks only of a multitude of good
points, she will have a model teacher for any situation.

Regardless of community involvement or status, a person who does something or
acts in an area beyond his social standing will at some point commit an
unsavory act. In the lowest ranks of Aislings, there are even people who would
instead run away. One should be careful in all interactions.

There are many who think that by becoming strong and taking many apprentices,
they have arrived at the fullest point in being a warrior. But you should never
think your learning or improvement is at an end. Focus on a specific point and
excel, but take into account many things as well. A person who does not focus
correctly may only be considered versed in matters that he considers
important. One should take care to excel in many areas if possible.

Striving in learning can be a good thing, but it can also lead to mistakes. We
often look up to individivuals who are more accomplished than we are. This is a
good thing. It helps determine your insufficiencies as a person and allows you
to grow. However, for the most part, people don't often look at learning in
this way. For the most part, people entertain themselves with their own
ideas and seem to enjoy arguing instead.

At a meeting of Demagogues, a man suggested a law and it was not accepted. Upon
hearing this, he threatened to kill the Burgess heading the meeting if his
proposal was not accepted. It was at that point that the law was unanimously
accepted. After the law had passed, the man proclaimed out loud that the
legislators of the town were unworthy to represent the city, and it was spread
that the legislators present were cowards and weaklings. Take care not to let
your opinion sway so easily.

There will always be a time when tensions are high and places are busy. When a
person enters this situation, people may treat them coldly or even with anger.
At all times, the etiquette of a true warrior is to calm yourself and deal with
the situation in a normal manner. To succumb to stress and treat a person
poorly is no better than a Fragile Chrysalis.

There are always times when you must rely on another person for some given
task. However, if this is done often, it can inconvenience a person and it
becomes rather rude and stressful. It is best to rely on yourself as much as
possible.

There was once a lesson I learned during my meditation in the great snowstorm
of Deochs past. When inclement weather arrives, many people become rushed and
attempt to hasten the pace, as to not get wet. When one darts into buildings
and takes shortcuts through dry areas, one will still get wet. But when you
realize this and accept it, and are resolved from the beginning, you will not
be caught off guard but will still get the same wetness. This principle applies
to almost everything.

There was once a man who liked Dracos. He drew pictures of Dracos, hung them in
his bedchambers, collected statues of Dracos, and collected tales of them as
well. A Draco grew fond of his passion for the race of Dracos, and as such, the
Draco visited him at his house during the evening. The man was terrified, and
died of shock. The man was probably one of those people who was quick to talk,
but acted differently when encountering the actual situation.

You should always attempt to correct a mistake as quickly as possible. If you
make a mistake, and correct it immediately, that mistake will just as quickly
disappear. However, should you make a mistake, and try to cover it up, the
mistake becomes more complicated, and is less likely to be forgotten. But there
are times when people will attempt to chastise you for your mistakes anyway.

Should this happen, all you need to say is that you have made a mistake, and
corrected it. It should now be the same as if it never happened. No one person
can evade blame for what they have done, this much is true. However, attention
to your mistake, and correction, should nearly always rectify the situation.

Always be careful to judge your listeners feelings and speak accordingly.

Some people care more to measure the loss and gain in any given situation,
rather than to look at it any other way. In this way of life, death is loss,
and the gift of life is gain. Thinking in this manner makes you weak.

Also in this manner, the Tuatha (and other such learned men and women) are
people who would use their wit and tongue to sway you from the true intention
of their words. These people are often cowardly and greedy. Thinking in this
manner also makes you weak.

One of the primary focuses in being a warrior is sheer desperateness. Ten or
more soldiers would not be able to kill such a desperate man in battle.
Rationality and logical thinking often do not accomplish what you want them to.
Simply become insane and desperate.

In war, should you use logic and rational thought, you will fall behind. Become
desperate in your path and charge ahead. Loyalty and devotion can be found in
desperation and death.

It is folly to think you cannot achieve what others have. The highest rankingw
nobles and most decorated warriors are humans. You, too, are also human. Should
you strive to succeed, you can accomplish whatever your heart desires.

A student of mine, Obi-Wan, achieved nobility at the lowest insight possible.
He was fully educated and ready for nobility at the eighth insight. To think
that one cannot achieve such a thing is foolish. Many people regard nobility
as a thing for the oldest and most recognized Aislings. It relates to the old
saying of the Deoch worshippers -- "First intention, then enlightenment."

Be confident and all things and do not let your tongue slip. Should a warrior
say something like, "Oh, in that situation, I'd probably run away," the
listener will see right to the center of the speaker's personality. It is best
never to say things like this, even in a joking manner. Think about what you
say beforehand, lest you be perceived a coward for the rest of your life. This
understanding can apply to a great deal of things.

In matters of importance, in order to be understood, it is best to consolidate
your words as much as possible. When you would say ten words, instead try to
summarize your thoughts into one. A clear, concise point is appreciated much
more than eloquent ramblings.

Make your decisions within the span of a wrinkle in time. A warrior is not one
who is known to deliberate over actions. Be resolved beforehand and execute
your decisions as soon as humanly possible.

When your mind is frayed, deliberation will not help you make the decision. It
is said that a warrior will make his decisions in the span of seven breaths.
With a quick mind full of determination and resolve, a warrior who follows this
creed will break through enemy ranks as if they were made of paper. This creed
also extends to many other aspects of life.

Those who have their heads full of knowledge and wisdom will often get
themselves in trouble with a tongue that spills these thoughts. Always be
careful of your tongue. It is said that a person who is discreet in matters
will be useful during the good times, and avoid punishment during the bad ones.

Being superior to others is really nothing more than having people talk about
your actions and listening to the opinions of others. The majority of people
settle into their own opinions, and thus will never excel. Discussion with a
person is the first step in excelling them.

Many times I have had discussions with Aislings about the more dangerous areas
of the world. These people are better than me at hunting and dueling. In
seeking correction from others in areas, you are one step closer to excelling
them.

There is never a thing that cannot be done. If one sets his mind to it, he may
cut down the gods, and change the tides of Kadath and Temuair he pleases. When
one becomes complacent, he lacks the motivation to achieve the goals he has not
yet reached. Achieving goals without putting forth a great amount of effort is
simply a matter of determination and concentration.

When in the field of battle, you should look to your comrades and be determined
to succeed them in breaking the enemy lines and cutting down your adversaries.
In doing this, you will manifest great strength and courage. Furthermore,
should you be cut down, you should be resolved to have your corpse facing your
foe.

When we examine the past, we find that there are many different opinions about
them, and that some things that are obscured by time. It is better to regard
these things simply as the unknown. There are some things we understand by
being taught. There are other things which we understand naturally, as is our
nature. Also, as such, there are some things that will never be known. This is
simple fact.

This was especially evident when I looked into the time of Cazia's political
"treachery." It is natural for some things to never be known. The things that
are easily understood are often shallow. Regard all things in life in this
way.

## The Chaos Theory**

Chaos is something that is evident in everyday life. As beings of free will,
able to do as we please, things get slightly out of hand. Not that this is a
bad thing, mind you; We simply just lose control of anything other than
ourselves. As any Gramailite or aspiring politician might tell you, control is
something that is absolutely necessary to make sure that we do not share the
fate of the Aosdan civilizations.

But control over anything but yourself is something that cannot be achieved.
There are always situations that we will have no control over. A corrupt man
may enter office and banish you from Rucesion for no reason. A curse may
accidentally be directed at you during a great battle instead of a monster, due
to confusion and lack of a proper line of sight. These things are inevitable.
To some, it may be unfortunate that you cannot always put yourself in the best
possible position and keep yourself out of negativity and harm's way.

The one thing you do have control over, however, is your perception of what
happens in your presence. Things happen all the time, and you should take them
for face value -- "As-is." There is no need to be distressed or angered over
what you cannot control -- it is simply a waste of time and energy. Control
yourself, your mind, and nothing more. Say to yourself, "I did it the best I
could with what I have available to me." There is nothing more to know.

Live your life this way and apply this philosophy to things you encounter. You
will find that overall, you are a much more civil and respectable person.

Chaos is something that many people fear or despise. Chaos brings images of
riots, anarchy, murder, thievery, and general mischief to the minds of many
people. But the nature of Chaos isn't negative. The nature of Chaos is simply a
lack of control. Chaos can be evident in a spontaneous act of compassion within
a murderous heart, or, likewise, an act of aggression by what would otherwise
be the most compassionate Gliocan priest known to Aisling-kind in any given
era. In most instances, it is the lack of control, the ever present
fear of the unknown that drives a mans heart to hate our lord Chadul.

## In Contrast to Danaan

Undoubtedly, if Chadul is to be perceived as such, the question must be raised
on how one perceives Danaan in this way. For if we are to believe that Chadul
is not the end-all of evil beings, this must surely translate to Danaan _not_
being the end-all of "good."

If we were to take an outside look at an Aisling living a strictly chaotic
mortal lifestyle, we could see many things that do not connect. One day, for
instance, our example man may rescue a small child's hound from being trapped
and suffocated in a small chasm. The next day, the very same man may choose to
eat that very same hound, simply out of curiosity and nothing more. To a
Danaanite, I'm sure this would appear a very odd sort of life. But we can
connect these actions, even though they are seemingly unconnected.

So what's the connection, you ask? Quite simple, really -- the life of a man
living a Chaotic lifestyle revolves around himself. It revolves around the
things that he enjoys, that he derives pleasure from, the things that he wants
to do, wants to worship, and wants to be known by. He derives his strength from
his passion. He gains his ferocity from what he holds true to HIS heart. And
so, by doing what he wishes, when he wishes, he leads a life of Chaos.

In contast to Danaan, that would not be the case. A true Danaanite, in my
views, is selfless. They forego the pleasures and experiences and treasures of
the mortal world for the benefit of the world. They take the teachings of Danu
into account and live by them every single day, not once questioning the
boundaries of right and wrong. They forego their souls in honor of what they
believe _should be._ So, yes, in a way, I suppose you could say we are very
alike. Very alike indeed.

## End

With this work read, and the philosophies herein starting to turn the wheels of
thought inside of your head, many of you are undoubtedly wondering where to go
from here.

The answer is simple, and you can learn it from most mundanes. "The path in
learning is endless." Always train your mind and body to follow the way of the
warrior, and to serve your Lord, as best as you can. Your mind and body are but
tools to serve your master.

## Credits

```
((The philosophies contained herein are heavily adapted from Bushido -- the
way of the Samurai. They also incoroporate the philosophies of people who have
enlightened me in my playing of Dark Ages.))
```
The following should be thanked for their contributions to the teachings that
I have retained, which has allowed me to write this.

* Vamistle, the Warrior
* Twila, the Monk
* Angelique, the Priest
* Ishikawa, the Monk
* Acerbus, the Priest
* Enclave, the Priest
* VanMorgan, the Priest
* Kakarott, the Wizard
* ObiWan, the Wizard
* Aylene, the Warrior
* Baeltal, the Priest
* Cazia, the Priest

```
(( The passages in section 3: "The Meditations" were heavily adapted for Dark
Ages. The ideas presented therein were originally adopted from generations of
Japanese Samurai, Buddhist Monks, Fuedal Lords and Priests. The ideas written
were taken from Yamamoto Tsunemoto's book of personal reflection on his life
and learning called 'Hagakure' and heavily, heavily adapted to fit in the
Gaelic Fantasy of Dark Ages.

All writing done by Ed (Etna Demonia) with the exception of the modified
content from Hagakure, which was written by Yamamoto Tsunemoto, priest Konan
and various other feudal japanese samurai and regional leaders and heavily
modified by Ed (Etna Demonia) for Dark Ages. ))
```

***

```
***

```
*Librarian Notes*

The original copy of this document was lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.

This entry has been heavily edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://anamanpact.blogspot.com/p/etna-ridireacht-chivalry.html .
```
