# Theory of Hidden Power

_by FalconZero of **Dark Ages**_

All aislings have wondered whether there has been a force or something magical
inside them which made the outside world. When one touches a plant and makes
deum, he feels a sense of happiness. When one touches the enemy he feels pain.
When one touches his god or goddess in a holy prayer, he feels a sigh of relief
and faith. What drives these small emotions? What makes us focus on what is at
hand? I believe that every aisling has a hidden potential. Each inside each and
every one of us there is a bit of magic which flows throughout our bloodstream.
I believe that when this potential reaches high insighted minds and highly
skilled people, a aura of energy can be seen within one if he/she closes their
eyes and awakens their innerself. Not just any self, but a self of strength,
intelligence, wisdom, con, and dexernity. The power hidden potential in one,
the more hidden potential that one can awake. I've noticed this happen many
times especially with monks. This is probably due to the large amount of
meditation they go through and the intense amount of seeing enemies flash
before there eyes. Monks attack with instinct and heart, rather than brute and
weaponry.

Another encounter which I noticed of the hidden potential is when I was walking
one beautiful day down Abel. I was interested in selling my goblins skulls to
the local skullmaster. Next to the bank was a monk of a rare insight. When I
passed by him my Holy Diana started to shake ruthlessly and as if trying to
point at the monk. I ignored the sign and considered it just the wind. However
next thing I knew, a creature from the dubhaim flew from above the sky and fell
down to the ground with such fury that I believed the whole ground shook. As I
turned around I saw the monk get into what seemed the White Bat stance. He
instantly disappeared and my eye opened widely to see what was going on. I knew
that the demon was here to attack on any he sees. Therefore I took evasive
action, I cast the Beag cradh on the demon but it had no affect on him. As the
beast came closer to me, he swung his arm up in the air going for a slash at my
chest. I believed it was my end. When all of a sudden my holy Diana started to
move angrily again. As I looked at it pointed behind the demon. I noticed that
the monk seen before had ambushed the creature of dubhaim and laid a furious
punch at the monster, knocking the demon across from me and hitting a wall in
the bank. When I turned back to look at the monk I saw the hidden potential. My
staff kept twirling and after a few seconds, the monk started to glow in a
yellow aura. He got scared and ran away. As he ran the aura faded and faded
till there was nothing left. My mind was twirling around like a merry go round
trying to figure out what just happened. No monk has the ability to have that
much strength. When I glanced back at the demon, the wall was destroyed but the
demon had vanished.

I've been trying to figure out what happened that day and what could of caused
the sudden increase in insight in a aisling. Thus I figured it out. After
immense study and some praying of my own I was shown a light. This light made
me see that within aisling emotion, one has the ability to release incredible
powers. Since the monk new I was in distress, he felt he had to do something.
Therefore his body, mind, and heart became one. This made his heart pump a sort
of magical blood. This blood must be the source of the hidden potential. I
myself have felt it and seen it. It is because of that day that I see now
powers of amazing abilities exist within all of us. It is because of that day,
that I started to meditate as well. Hopefully some day when evil triumphs, I
will be there to show the pure and the well hearted how to release and awaken
their hidden potential.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/FalconZero_Power.html .
```

