# Journey Through the Circles

_By Fascinum in **Dark Ages**_

_A Philosophical Journal of My Experiences in the Chamber of the Veil_

This is an account of my personal experiences in the Chamber of the Veil, and
my knowledge of the Five Paths. Also included are notes an theories on the Five
Paths, as well as other thoughts or notes on my journey.

The Chamber of the Veil is made up of 15 rooms. Eight of these rooms are Circle
Rooms, where one makes decisions about their intent, experiences, and Path. The
other five rooms are chambers of Demi-Gods. These Demi-Gods teach those who
share their ideals, and allow one to be reborn as a follower of their
respective path.

The Chamber of the Veil is shaped like a diamond. On the outer edges of the top
left and right sides of the diamond are the aforementioned chambers of the
Demi-Gods. The layout of the diamond reveals the strengths, weaknesses, and
ideals of each Path. Below is my analysis of each path, based on my journeys
through the Circles:

## Warrior

**Demi-God:** Ceannlaidir

**Strengths:** Might. The Warrior relies heavily on weapons and armor for his
  might.

**Position:** Caennlaidir's Chamber is positioned on the far left outer edge of
  the Diamond. Being positioned on the outer edge of the diamond reveals a
  Warrior's desire to conquer, and his quest for power. The positioning on a
  far outer edge of the diamond represents the Warrior's belief in overcoming
  nature. However, the Demi-God's alignment to the left side of the diamond
  reveals his respect for might and physical power.

**Opposite:** A Warrior's opposite is the Wizard. The Warrior relies on potions
  and scrolls for magic, whereas the Wizard has natural magic powers.

**Circles:** There is one direct path to Caennlaidir's chamber without having
  to backtrack. This represents the Warrior's extreme regard for might, and
  disregard for magic. This also shows that a Warrior does not rely on nature
  for his power.

**Element:** A Warrior's element is Fire. This represents his raw strength.
  Fire is also associated with the forge which is used to make a Warrior's
  weapons and armor.

## Monk

**Demi-God:** Cail

**Strengths:** Might. The Monk focuses on might, but draws his power from the
  beauty of nature.

**Position:** Cail is one space in from an outer edge on the diamond, and
  towards the left side. Cail's position on the left represents a Monk's focus
  on physical strength. However, the positioning of Cail as one room from the
  outer edge of the diamond reflects a Monk's reliance on nature for his power.

**Opposite:** A Monk's direct opposite is the Priest. While both Monk and
  Priest focus on nature, the Monk is a disciple of strength. The Priest is a
  disciple of mysticism, and seeks to help others through the mystic power of
  nature.

**Circles:** There are two direct paths to Cail's chamber which can be taken
  without backtracking. This shows that the Monk is balanced between nature and
  either Might or Magic. As Cail is on the left side of the diamond, the
  balance of the Monk is between Might and Nature.

**Element:** A Monk's element is Earth. This represents his might, as well as
  his contact with nature. This element also represents the Monk's raw might
  and internal power.

## Rogue

**Demi-God:** Fiosachd

**Strengths:** The Rogue is a path of balance. Rogues are swift and powerful,
  yet mystic aislings who helps others. They rely heavily on their own skills,
  and are very independent, well rounded people.

**Position:** Fiosachd is in the middle chamber on the top edge of the diamond.
  This represents his balance between force and nature.

**Opposite:** A Rogue has no opposite. Therefor, there is no path that is
  particularly similar to the Rogue's path, thus making him an independent
  aisling.

**Circles:** There are four possible paths leading to Riosachd's chamber,
  without reaching a set of circles that tells you to choose another room if
  you do not wish to follow the single path described (as with the circles just
  outside the Warrior's and Wizard's chambers). This represents a Rogue's well-
  rounded life-style, and balance between might and magic, as well as focus on
  nature.

**Element:** A Rogue's element is the Light. This represents his desire to help
  others. The Light also represents a Rogue's balance, as Light is primarily an
  element of balance, being as is a neutral element. Light is also
  balanced due to the fact that every Light casts a Shadow.

## Priest

**Demi-God:** Glioca

**Strengths:** Nature. The Priest draws on nature to help others, and cure the
  ill. The Priest is a disciple of light and compassion, and is protected by
  all gods.

**Position:** Glioca is one space in from an outer edge on the diamond, and
  towards the right side. The chamber's position on the right side of the
  diamond represents a Priest's focus on mysticism. The positioning of Glioca
  as one room from the outer edge of the diamond reflects a Priest's reliance
  on nature for his power.

**Opposite:** A Priest's direct opposite is the Monk. While both Priest and
  Monk focus on nature, the Priest is a disciple of mysticism. The Monk is a
  disciple of strength, and uses the power of nature to increase his strength,
  which he uses to help others.

**Circles:** Like Cail's chamber, there are two direct paths to Glioca's
  chamber that can be taken without backtracking. This represents that the path
  of the Priest is balanced between nature and either Might or Magic. As Glioca
  is on the right side of the diamond, the balance of the Priest is between
  Magic and Nature.

**Element:** The Priest's element is Water. Water is recognized for its mystic
  healing properties, and is therefor associated with the Priest, who seeks to
  heal the wounded and cure the ill.

## Wizard

**Demi-God:** Luathas

**Strengths:** Magic. The Wizard uses his mystic powers to grow in power and
  fight darkness.

**Position:** Luatha's Chamber is positioned on the far right outer edge of the
  Diamond. Being positioned on the far outer edge of the diamond reveals a
  Wizard's desire to conquer, and his quest for power. The positioning on the
  extreme outer edge of the diamond also represents the Wizard's belief in
  overcoming nature. However, Luathas's alignment on the right side of the
  diamond reveals his respect for magic and all elements.

**Opposite:** A Wizard's opposite is the Warrior. The Wizard is in touch with
  the mystic powers of the elements, and therefor uses spells to tap into
  magical power. In contrast, a Warrior relies on potions and scrolls for
  magic.

**Circles:** There is one direct path to Luathas's chamber without having to
  backtrack. This represents a Wizard's extreme regard for magic, and disregard
  for might. This also shows that a Wizard does not rely on nature for his
  power.

**Element:** The Wizard's element is Air. The nature of Air in itself is
  mystic. 'Tis not a seen element, and 'tis a very powerfl element. Air is
  therefor associated with the mysticism and power of the Wizard.

Thus concludes my analysis of the individual classes, but there is much more to
say for the Chamber of the Veil.

I would make a note on opposite paths now. 'Tis not surprising that upon
scribbling out a map of the Chamber of the Veil, I found that the chambers of
the opposite paths were positioned oppositely on the diamond. For example, the
Warrior's chamber is on the far left, whereas the Wizard's chamber is located
on the far right side of the diamond. Hence, the two paths are opposites.
Likewise, the Monk's chamber is one in from the left edge of the diamond, and
the Priest's chamber is one in from the right edge of the diamond. The Rogue,
having no direct opposite, is centered at the peak of the diamond. 'Tis also
interesting to note that might takes precedence on the left side of the
diamond, and magic takes precedence on the right side. This suggests that the
conflict between might and magic is greater than that of the conflict between
those who would worship nature and those who would conquer it.

As to the circles on the floors of eight of the rooms in the Chamber of the
Veil, I have a few speculations as to their powers. 'Tis my belief that the
circles are relics of the Gods of each Path. They tend to intersect each other,
as each pattern of circles is made up of two choices. The damage inflicted by
these circles on those who would walk upon them is most likely a pain brought
by the half of the circle that the individual crossing the circles does not
believe in. For example, the first set of circles an aisling finds poses a
choice between might and mysticism. Those who seek might in their life feel
pain from the circles which are relics of the Gods of the mystic paths. Those
who seek mysticism in their life feel pain from the circles which are relics of
the Gods of the paths of might. The center of each pattern is a focus point,
where the power of the relics coincide in pure balance. This is where the
aisling makes his choice as to which aspect of those circles he will choose to
follow in his life.

'Tis also interesting to note that one cannot choose a path without first
walking the pattern of the circles. A Demi-God will not teach an aisling who
has not learned from the circles and decided which path he would follow based
on their knowledge. This would back up my theory on the circles's ties to the
gods of each path, as the Demi-Gods know who have touched and learned from
their God's relics.

In conclusion, there is much to learn from the mystic circles in the Chamber of
the Veil. Not everything is known about them, but through great thought and
contemplation, 'tis my belief that the circles can teach us a great deal more
about ourselves than if we were to hastily choose a path without considering
their wisdom.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Fascinum_Veil.html .
```
