# Light Discovery

_by Firemace in **Dark Ages**_

Can you feel that, child?

The holy wind that shall vanquish darkness from the depths of all hell. The
glorified elements of light which only through it can one the touch the spirit
element.

What is that?

You wish to become an artist of the light you say? No Child, I will not let
you, for those who befall the ways of the light may be vanquished forever into
the depths of darkness, for it was light which was spawned from the furious
flames of darkness. Light shall and will, because of its great mysterious
power, which only the first oracle can contain, destroy its creator. The light
was found by the holy Templar oracle. "MAGUS" was his name. He now can be found
in disguise as a master of the darkness element for what he does not know about
darkness he cannot know about light. Magus does know every art however, but he
dwells in teaching darkness for light is his only one love. He wishes to know
everything about the dark element to better understand it when the judging
shall come. The dark forces shall mistake him for an ally and he shall vanquish
all that do and wish to behold the element of dark.

How does he know of but every element you say?

Child, you are my best pupil but the must learn more for I have already told
you. Only light is the element that can touch spirit and only spirit is the
element, which can touch all elements. Magus has seized but only a fraction of
this power and shall soon know of only half of its knowledge. He does know all
of the arts yes, but little of them indeed, for he knows little of the spirit
element.

I wonder, child, if I should be telling you this for I could be vanquished into
the depths of hell for all eternity if this had spread around. The holy
disguise of magus would be broken and his true hideous form would be released.
I have not seen his dark form but that is his own eye only. Although he may
have a truly hideous physical form he beholds the most beautiful spiritual form
ever known to the Gods.

I should get back to the subject, for my babbling could get me beheaded or
thrown into the dark realms. Magus was the first one to touch the element after
learning the element of earth for quite some time. He was known to masters of
the earth element for he was the most talented they had ever seen. He soon had
surpassed the histories and working of the Earth element and could not receive
or give any more from it. He was the true master of that element. After having
his lifetime lengthen by the gods for showing them the true meaning of the
Earth he started to dwindle the Wind element. Soon he did the same for Wind ad
his life was lengthened by the gods so that he may discover the Water element.
For every element he became master and for every element he had received life
gifts from the gods. Although after learning the 4 known elements he was
satisfied he saw but a drop of another, undiscovered element in each one of
these elements. He saw this time after time and started to go back through the
elements one by one searching for this new element until one horrid day when he
found it.

"DARKNESS" was unlike any element anyone had seen before. It wreaked havoc over
everything it touched and was found in the fire element. I believe that if
Darkness had been found in any other element it would have killed us all but
because it was found in fire, fire could keep it at bay with it's flames which
seemed to illuminate this and kill darkness.

Magus saw this and trained many more people in the way of fire so that darkness
may not rule but darkness was swallowing the flames more and more each day and
was combining with the fire element. Magus grieved for the Fire element and
sorts its retribution for him. He searched never sleeping day after day, night
after night, until he found it, A SPARK.

He realized then that this was the exact same thing he had seen on all the
other elements but had not noticed it. He had found the element of light. He
knew once then and there that light was strongest in the fire element so he
looked in the fire element, which was combined with darkness. He gave his soul
to everything darkness had in order to kill it but even though he was the
strongest master that ever lived he could only give enough to free the fire
element form darkness' clutches. He became the element of light hoarding off
darkness until it was vanquished.

And here we are today. I believe that if it were not for Magus we would have
certainly died in the darkness and flames. Magus has saved us and to this
present day has been given immortality from the gods, because even they fear
the element of darkness.

Magus spends hours each day just practicing the element of darkness, sifting
through its secrets wanting to know what makes it so powerful. The gods have
faith in him for he has just found a new element: The element of spirit, which
can control all elements. That is their dangers and their pleasures.

Magus was the founder of all basic elements and the he shall be mentor of all
new elements. He is our savior and shall not die for he is the master of every
element and discoverer of all.

How did he get to fire? HAHA child, never stop-asking questions do you... It
all began with Nature... normal nature which you see around you every day. From
nature he found dirt which was made from Earth. He had found the element of
earth.

From EARTH soon came the wind that blew the dirt and from the air came WIND.

From EARTH to WIND and from wind came the clouds, which dropped WATER.

From EARTH to WIND to WATER to Water's enemy FIRE.

I have told you the rest from fire.

FROM EARTH; WIND; WATER; FIRE; DARKNESS; LIGHT; SPIRIT.

Oh yes child... Every light may cast a shadow, but the shadows shall destroy
themselves through Magus's hands.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Firemace_Light.html .
```
