# The Hunger

_by Ginger in **Dark Ages**_

My knowledge on the Shadow hunger is only too well. I hold the misfortune of
being held in it's grasp seven times in my aisling life. It pierces my mind to
remember the fearful moments sitting on the cold stoned floor, trapped in walls
stained with blood. The only thing more terrifying than seeing the bony dark
face beneath the bloody color of the Shadow Hunger's robe, is the intense
moments of waiting for him to come.

Sometimes the helpless victims are in the pit for hours, sometimes moons,
before the demon is summoned. Leaving them shaking to the bone, building the
nightmarish images in their mind of what was to come. Just one-second of not
thinking about your sgathing, was all it took. It is hard to keep your mind off
something so dreadful, hence the reason why they were there for so long. Just
being left in the cell, alone was the most feared part of the sgath.

The Shadow Hungers are heartless demons, composed of the lost souls of
aislings. They feed on the aisling spirit, causing many to believe they're from
the Dubhaim. Others believe they are of a more powerful source than Sgrios. The
source of evil itself, Chadul.

It is beyond many why aislings damn each other to such a horrid fate. Not
because it is just that, but because it is an action powered by evil forces. An
action that only aislings that possess political power can control. I use the
term, control loosely. It is a death wish to say you control the power of
sgath. Only the ignorant believe they control such evil, and with the
combination of evil and politics, ignorance is deadly.

Many do not know where the hungers are, right before they are summoned. It is
to popular belief that they are not from our world, or any at all. What many
fail to see, is they come from ourselves.

Despite the fact some aislings have led themselves to believe that certain
individuals are made with pure love and not an ounce of anything else, they are
only fooling themselves. We each have a Shadow hunger within. The hunger for
vengeance is something we're born with. All aislings start with the spark of
darkness. Whatever happens after that, is up to them. It can always grow and
weaken, but never can we banish something so powerful, that is sown deeply in
our soul.

Given that it is drawn from ourselves, the strength and hate of your Shadow
Hunger is that of yours. It is possible however, to defeat it. Not with swords,
magic, hope, or even intelligence. But with your willingness to except.

To except your fate is a virtue, but to except yourself is a quality more
powerful than any aisling can comprehend.

Meeting your shadow hunger is as if looking in your heart. The part of your
heart that holds that bit of vengeance then stands before you.

When you're confronting that part, it's as though you're falling asleep. You
grow weak, and lose touch of all that is happening around you. You fall into a
dream where you feel consciousness but still have the weakness of reality. All
you can depend on is your ability to love, and believe. If all you've ever
known is the exact opposite of love, you aren't left with much defense against
yourself.

Love is more powerful than hate. When you love someone, you are willing to
forgive them of their sins. Most importantly, give them the opportunity to
correct mistakes. Whereas hate, is just the opposite. You do not forgive. You
do not show remorse or sympathy. If you've shut out love, you've blocked
forgiveness as well.

Last minute decisions are not possible in the Sgath. You must know who you are,
and embrace your destiny with courage.

After the Sgath, you feel as though you're being born again. And that is just
what you're doing. Only this time, you're being eaten away mentally. The
question will be more piercing; Will I learn to love and except?

I did my research on when this political ritual began and how. Of course, it is
not nearly explained as well as I had hoped it would be. I could not find a
certain date which it started. It's as though it appeared out of air and
everyone treated it like it had always existed. Perhaps it always has, and
always will, as long as there is life. As long as there is that one person
unwilling to embrace the truth, and welcome it with open arms.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Ginger_Hunger.html .
```
