# Aisling Shadow Hunger

_ by Gokuden in **Dark Ages**_

In my studies of the Sgrios religion, one aspect of their fervent worship
astounds and amazes me, a condition I have dubbed the "Aisling Shadow Hunger
Phenomena," or Shadow Hunger, (as the aforementioned title is a bit
longwinded). Shadow Hunger, the act of claiming of an aisling's soul, is a
"trait" seemingly passed down from Sgrios, the god of death, to his followers.
As most aislings know, Sgrios feasts upon the souls of fallen, and through
Shadow Hunger, his followers mimic this action on the living. The benefits for
the worshipper that great, for it cause Sgrios' favor in them to rise, and the
consumption of another's soul greatly adds to the ki of the follower that
invokes the act. Using the magic Art of White Bat Kung Fu, I have witnessed
Shadow Hunger "rages" first hand. I will now share with you some of my
discoveries...

## Dangerous Hunts

Dangerous hunt are like a festal board for those wrought with the Shadow
Hunger, as in most cases, there are many deaths and many souls to consume. In a
hunt in Astrid, I witnessed two young warriors fighting off hordes of kobolds
as a goblin warrior, smelling the death in the air, came from deeper parts of
that forsaken place. The goblin attacked the two warriors, and though skilled
for their years, the warriors were overpowered, and the goblin's fury won over
their armor. As the two warriors faced their last moments, a young male monk
(whom would later be my primary study), appearing from nowhere, placed his
prayer necklace on the ground and recited a chant to Sgrios. He then partook of
their souls, one by one, gaining from each of their deaths ki and the fancy of
his god. He then rummaged through their belongs, took their gold, and faded
into nothing...

Another hunt gone wrong took place in the East Woodlands. A young female monk
and a wizard were hunting wolves in the forest. The monk, capable in her own
right, was fighting close combat with the stealthy weres, as the mage hit them
from afar with magic. However, a few wolves emerged from the shadows and
attacked the unsuspecting wizard. Overwhelmed, the mage cried for aid as he
could feel his life force slipping. The young woman said something in a strange
tongue, and another monk, the aforementioned young man, walked from the shadows
and consumed the poor fellow's soul. He then bade farewell to his lover, and
disappeared again into the brush.

Finally, a hunt in the Mileth Crypts showed me the depths of what the Hunger
can do to an aisling. My subject and another monk went into the crypts in
search of scorpion stings, a most valued prize among young monks. The two
engaged the beast in combat, fighting valiantly until the other monk fell,
dying from the scorpion's poison. He begged his partner for help, but my
subject just laughed at him. He then placed his necklace on the ground and
recited a chant to Sgrios, sending his partner to his god. He then finished off
the scorpion, took the gold of his brother, and disappeared into nothing...

## Sgrios Summons

Sgrios summons and the Shadow Hunger were perfectly designed for each other, as
the dubhiamids' hunger for destruction runs parallel to a worshiper's hunger
for souls. Two incidents stand out in my mind when I try to ponder of this way
one indulges his hunger.

While walking through the town of Undine, I witnessed a young rouge shining
gems in an alley. The young monk passed the alley, and whispered in an archaic
tongue, and soon the area was filled with many horrible creatures. As the
dubhiamid tore at the rouge's flesh, the young monk placed his necklace on the
ground and recited a chant to Sgrios. He tore the soul from the rouge's body,
chuckled, and vanished after taking the jewels. Knowing that such beasts were
out of place in Undine, I knew that it was a Sgrios summon, and that he called
them forth. The coldness of the murder, shocking as it was, caused me to
chuckle as well.

Though Sgrios worshippers seem to be a solitary lot, on occasion, they come
together to wreak large-scale devastation, which contributes greatly to
satisfying the Hunger of many Sgrios members at once. Like a mother delivering
food to her young, an older member of Sgrios Faith will perform a massive
summon of demons, creatures so foul that even the dubhiamid tremble in their
presence, such as the East Woodland event propagated by Lord MaX at the
beginning of the Year of Sgrios in Deoch 9. During the chaos, many of the brave
souls who fought the monstrosities died, and from the shadows, young Sgrios
worshipers relished in the rampant death around them, including that young male
monk.

## Unexplainable Hideous Rituals

The most twisted rituals involving the Shadow Hunger are also the most
perplexing...

Some aislings, though curiosity, love of a mate, or other secret reasons
willingly give themselves to a member of Sgrios to appease his hunger. One
incident, involving my study, took place in the Mileth Crypts. He and a
beautiful young warrior walked, side by side, into the depths. Upon reaching
the third floor, the young woman proceed to remove her clothing, giving her
precious items to the monk for safekeeping. Sensing her defenselessness,
centipedes and demon bats emerged and swarmed her body, killing her in moments.
The monk then placed his necklace on the ground, and recited the chant to
Sgrios, claiming her soul. He then killed all the beasts then stood as if
patiently waiting for something. Time passed, then the young woman came down
the stairs, having receiving new flesh from Sgrios. He then gave her back her
possessions, and the two exited the crypts, hand in hand.

Another ritual among Sgrios members suffering from Shadow Hunger is the brutal
contest Shinmatae, which in common tongue translates to "The True Fight."
Members of all Paths compete in contest of mortal combat, the winner claming
the soul of his fallen opponent. Contestants are grouped by level of insight,
so at to make both the fight and the reward of ki equal among combatants. The
dueling aislings then summon demons, an act which destroys Daanan's control
over the aisling soul, and allows men to harm each other physically. The
contestants then claim each others soul, and fight a battle to the death.

The final act, almost to bizarre in nature to describe, takes place once again
in the Mileth Crypts. A large congregation of Sgrios worshipers, usually after
a mass, gathers in the Crypts. Many enter, with nothing but ragged clothes,
torn blouses, and the prayer necklace of Sgrios. Then, in a sick orgy of death,
they proceed to claim each others souls and kill one another. As they are
revived, by other followers in the Deoch temple in Suomi, they continue the
self mutilation, slaughter, and suicide until everyone present has partaken of
the soul of everyone else, and through massive consumption of souls the overall
faith of the group is exponentially increased.

These are but a few of my many observations into the world of the Sgrios
Religion involving Shadow Hunger. Seeing such lengths the followers of this
religion go to appease their god and satisfy their own dark appetites has
proven to me that Sgrios' control over his servants is strong, and his hunger
all-consuming. With those final words, I end this tome, for now I must feed
again...

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Gokuden_Hunger.html .
```

