# Revelation of the Goblin and Kobold Gateway to the East

_by Jakkal in **Dark Ages**_

Often traveling amongst the lush vegetation in the East woodland I have
ventured far on small walks of exploration. Many a times I have walked to the
beaches and cliffs of the western side of the East woodlands and stared off at
the horizon. Upon doing so I had spotted a rather large Isle, It appeared much
uninhabited. Curious I asked about but no one seemed to give a definite answer
to my inquiries so I thought I should go into action myself. With many long
hours and days of lumbering finally I had made a crude boat of the nearby
trees of the Eastern Woodlands. I gathered supplies and prepared for a long
journey toward the island of my adventure from which I would gain invaluable
knowledge and insight into the connection of goblins to the mainland.

The was rough and the small boat I had prepared careened and constantly I
feared it would capsize any minute. I let out a breath of relief as I began to
come upon the shores of the Island of my journey. Anchoring my small boat upon
the sandy beach of the island I could see a lush tropical Island of exotic
plants and strange vegetation. Much of the time when I first landed on the
strange Isle I gazed at the foreign atmosphere wondering who created such a
thing. The trees jutted out of the land sharply with the straight branches
jutting up diagonally and vertically. The leaves upon the tree appeared to be
extremely full and thick and leaves stocks grew from other leaf stocks. It
appeared to have a strange fruit that looked a greenish brown. Upon examining
the floor near the tree a small arrangement of mold grew in a circle around the
tree. A conclusion was draw that the mold and the tree had a symbiotic
relationship. The tree dropped its fruit to the mold which ate the fleshy
fruit, the mold in turn would disperse the seeds by pulsating in the strangest
matter carefully bringing the seeds to the ends of the mold circles and where
the seeds where dropped to let them germinate.

Further I explored into the Island seeing many of the native plants I was well
used to seeing. But very soon I began to realize that the Island was somehow
inhabited. Several warning signs where evident, exploration of the island
revealed several traps for small rodents to my keen eye as well as neatly
chopped trees and slash and burn cutting. This began to almost frighten me as
the foul stench of recognizable goblin or kobold dung filled my nostrils. The
stench was strangely familiar as the time i was slaughtered utterly in the
caves of the goblins and grimloks. Suddenly my heart raced and I began to try
to be more stealthy realizing I could be in very much danger. I wanted to turn
back and go back to my little boat and row far away but the prospect of
exploration was too much. I camped during the day eating a meal of packed
grapes and cherries from the city of Soumi. In the night I was awakened
suddenly by the soft glow of a campfire and crude voices speaking in an even
cruder language. I gazed fearfully and tried as best as possible to remember my
rogue training creeping silently toward the light. What I saw made my heart
race as I gazed upon the camp of the goblins as well as kobolds. currently they
where performing a religious ceremony and there where each a goblin shaman and
a kobold shaman. A large pot of an unknown substance gave off a strong and
unpleasant smell making me cup my hand over my nose. The ritual was a little
enchanting and it reminded me much of the Sgrios masses I have attended, the
goblins and kobolds where a much more religiously devout culture than aisling I
believed.

Then a carrier goblin from another camp as I could only guess came out of the
woods and presented a letter to the kobold shaman who had given the carrier
another letter to give the other camp. I was in even more grave danger than I
had originally thought, Apparently the goblins and kobolds have been living
here for quite some time. That morning I decided that it would do me well to
leave the island before I became a meal or sacrifice to their God. I creeped
silently back to my encampment and regathered my supplies. I decided to take a
different route and I had seen many lumbering yards upon where the goblins had
abandoned their tools to settle in for the night. The lumber yards suggested a
productivity amongst the goblin culture which was a bit intriguing. I hastily
began to hike back toward my boat but before the night was over I decided to
walk along the beach for a bit. Along the coast it was quiet and somber as I
shuffled my feet softly in the sand. Suddenly a large structure appeared,
actually several of them. Along much of the beach there where small shipping
bays that the goblins had made with their crude tools and techniques and the
buildings they constructed where as equally disgusting as they where. I had
realized that the goblin and kobolds of Astrid had a gate to the mainland from
this island.


A thought was conjured in my mind as I suddenly thought "How else would they
get to Mileth lands?" This small island was the gateway of conquest from Astrid
to Mileth lands, This would explain the goblin inhabitants of the Pravat cave
as well as the tribes amongst the East Woodlands. An excellent prospect, I
began to scribble a bit about this adventure in my diary for future reference.
This island west of the East Woodlands would prove the main route of the
Goblins and Kobolds of Astrid to Mileth and other places. Another theory would
be that they have traveled through a great expansion of large tunnels
underground, This I thought to be highly unorthodox due to the amount of labor
and time it would take to construct such a tunnel, though the goblins seem to
be great laborers the theory may prove correct. This spread of the Goblins by
route of see could prove detrimental to Abel ship travel between itself and
Undine. Goblin pirates could prove formidable but no doubt Aisling ships are
better constructed and could probably out maneuver them. With this blab of
knowledge I returned to see my little boat, of whom which I had slaved over,
was still in it's original state anchored. I entered my boat and let up the
small anchor and grabbed the oars and began to row away from the Island. I
looked back on the Island only wondering if perhaps more aisling exploration of
the island would prove more fruitful as a gazed back at the gateway to the
East.

_Jakkal_
_rogue of Sgrios_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Jakkal_Gate.html .
```

