# Lagorah Dubhaimid

_by Kailieann in **Dark Ages**_

The stories of the Lagorah Dubhaimid, or _Lag Demons_, date back eons ago, well
before Deoch created the first Aisling, and before the octet of gods and
goddess that are at the center of our religious practices rose to power, when
Mundanes throughout Temuair were subject to Chadul's every whim. According to
legend, the Lagorah are the highest order of Dubhaimid, whose power is so great
it is feared by even Sgath, the shadow hunger.

The Lagorah Dubhaimid are concealed from the eyes of Mundanes and Aislings
alike, but their powers can be felt by all, and when they become agitated, none
in Temuair are safe. The icy hands of the Lagorah can reach into the minds of
any being, causing intense lethargy, making time appear frozen to the one under
attack. However, in the time of the attack, many things can happen, and many
deaths have been accredited to these Lag Demons.

The powers of the Lagorah do not stop at slowing the senses, though. When a
group of them band together, they can cast sleep spells so powerful that
everything in Temuair is afflicted. Unfortunately, there are no warning signs
of these attacks, and no way to predict, prevent, or resist them, either. Once
a Lag Demon has a hold of you, all you can do is wait until the assault is
over.

Mundanes refuse to discuss the Lagorah, but most Aislings believe in them.
However, very few will admit to it overtly. Since no one can see them, there
are those who try to convince themselves that they do not exist, and force
others to conform to these beliefs. Some people consider it heresy to mention,
or even allude to Lag Demons.

But if the Lagorah do not exist, then where do the attacks of sensory
depravation come from? And who is it that forces the sleep spells upon the
entire world? By the other side of the same token, if they DO exist, then are
they truly Dubhaimid, like the Succubi or Fiends that Sgrios is so fond of, or
are they too powerful to be controlled by the god of chaos? And if so, then
where did they come from? Are they manifestations of hatred like the Dubhaimid,
or are they something greater? Some believe it was the Lagorah that created
Sgath. Others believe that they are the brood of Chadul himself. Some even
believe that they are from beyond Temuair, and do not realize what they are
doing, like a child stepping on an insect hidden by tall grass.

Regardless of what the Lagorah are, where they came from, and what their
designs are, the mythos surrounding these Lag Demons is widespread, and its
effect has been felt throughout all of Temuair from the birth of the first
Mundane, to the present, and beyond.

_"Goddess love all, Goddess bless all, Goddess forgive all,"_  
_Kailieann (Kai), Gliocan Priestess_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/_Lag.html .
```
