# The Beauty of The Spark

_by Kasmanan in **Dark Ages**_  
  
_Reflections on Aisling Individuality_  
_Summer, Deoch 17_  

I sometimes sit and watch the young aislings in Mileth march back and forth,
eavesdropping upon their varied conversations. It is amazing to listen to the
different opinions and sometimes bravado that burst forth from these eager
young aisling minds. Each seems to have his/her own take on their role in
Temuair, and many times I hear boastful "I'm going to be.." and "I just..."
tales coming from all directions. It is to these same young aislings that I
direct these reflections in philosophy, as I am hopeful that perhaps the
slightest nudge of direction may help to guide these aislings further upon
their chosen paths. To these aislings, I would say take my words at their face
value, and if you find value in them, do what you may to apply them to your
everyday lives. You are the spark that keeps us going...

Many "classes", or occupations, of aislings feel very much that they, and they
only, are truly the chosen among the aisling population. While certainly there
is no harm in taking great pride in ones work, all too often far too little
respect is given to the other aislings that "behind the scenes" shape and mold
Temuair each and every day. It is an all too familiar story: Each feels that
they don't really "need" anything from other aislings, except perhaps a bit of
support when the going becomes rough. Fighters may feel that rogues sit in the
background with their trappings, and take the lazy path of least resistance,
playing a small role in hunting.. Rogues, on the other hand, may feel that were
it not for the terrible magics that many "high insight" monsters present, they
could handle the job of hunting in Temuair virtually single-handedly. And
behind this all stands the priest, who knows his role to be invaluable, that of
healing and sometimes (such as in the mines of Kasmium) providing potent
offense to boot. And the Monk, many of whom feel that through their skill and
knowledge, combined with brute strength and fortitude, they are a force that
far outshines everyone else, in combat and otherwise.

It is not just in the separation of classes that such thoughts prevail. Many
fighters will often directly compare themselves to other warriors, believing
fully that he who has the higher strength is indeed the better man. Rogues
often snicker at those among their population who have chosen not to become
expert gem smiths or blade smiths, instead preferring to perhaps excel in
trapping, or even a rescuer of other aislings who are in such need deep within
the deadly dungeons of Temuair. Priests and Mages both are very often heard
asking "Do you possess this spell?" and proceeding to boastfully laugh if the
answer is no. Many monks believe that those among their numbers that do not
devote all of their attentions to the furthering of their strength and
internal fortitude, or constitution, are weak and useless, irregardless of
what other skills they may possess.

So in all of this, what harm is there? Certainly many would argue that a fine
line exists between pride in ones own accomplishments, and overbearing bravado
which does not endear you to you peers. Many a proud aisling may see themselves
as the greatest champion of the lands, while many mutter and whisper behind his
back that he is naught but a big talker, and hold little true respect. Perhaps
the cure to all of this is to come to the realization that each individual
aisling does indeed possess the spark of individuality. It is what separates us
from the mundanes. One does not necessarily need to match or exceed the
accomplishments of other aislings in order to be consider a success in his/her
own endeavors. To think in such a manner is pure folly.

It saddens me sometimes as I look around to think that perhaps we are growing
further and further away from this spark. Many aislings see themselves as
little more than tools to be modeled and shaped into instruments of ever-
increasing power, with little need to explore the finer points of the world
around them. Perhaps it is time that we all stop and think a bit harder about
the roles each aisling plays. The vast majority of us have at some time found
great use from an item or items that other aislings have found. It is rare that
one stops to question exactly what all skills and talents went into the
acquisition of that particular item, be it a weapon, staff, or other item that
we hold dear. Perhaps a rogue that you personally consider quite lazy was
actually the original finder of that dark belt that you so proudly wear. If
this is true, that can it not be said that this same rogue has played a role in
your continuing survival? Maybe you bear proudly into combat a Holy
Diana...have you given thought to the individuals efforts that caused you to
actually possess this staff? Even when we are able to find such items through
our own endeavors, it would do each of us well to remember that we have been
constantly aided and supported every step of the way by other aislings.

So many aislings, young and old, seem to feel that they are "required" to
follow a certain path that has been set forth and written in stone prior to
their awakening as an aisling. Let that not be the case; each of us is an
individual, and within each of us lies the ability to create and further our
own lives, and in doing so, enrich the lives of other aislings around us.
Individuality is a trait that no amount of gold or treasure will ever be able
to buy. Just ask a mundane if you doubt me. Cherish your gift....your spark.
Use it well, and use it wisely. Live your life the way that _you_ see best, and
live and learn with your mistakes. There is no absolute perfection...so many
aislings need to stop striving for it, and seek to simply make themselves the
best that they possibly can, by using the gifts which they have. When another
criticizes your actions, learn to stop and differentiate between helpful and
harmful criticism. Many aislings seek no more than to genuinely help you, but
there are some that would seek to mold each and every other aisling around them
in their own image, to further support their own egos. Don't fall victim to
this...simply smile and continue upon the path that you have used your spark of
creativity and individuality to create. And in doing so, you will set a far
greater example to the other aislings around you that you could ever hope to
otherwise, and awaken yet more sparks in this beautiful world around us. To
that end, I will leave this subject be, lest I become longwinded and bore you.
I hope you are able to find strength in my words, and enrich yourself and the
aislings around you. Be well and be safe...

_Kasmanan Dâ€™Arth_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Kasmanan_Spark.html .
```
