# Timeless

_by Katrionah in **Dark Ages**_

_A treatise on the aging process of the Aisling_

I begin this in the winter of Deoch twenty... It has been twenty years since
the tumultuous chaos of the world's resettling gave way to an Age of Aislings.
How ironic that tonight I write of the very age of we Aislings; the measure of
life, that is. I am nearing my thirty-third birthday, come the waxing of this
moon I will have reached it. My looking glass, however, shows not a single
wrinkle upon my face. My bones and muscles do not ache with the harsh weather
that tries time and again to creep within the walls of my home. I am as virile,
nay moreso, than when I first awoke that night when the Goddess' light first
touched me.

The world and its secrets have opened up to me since that first uncertain day.
The only thing that seems burdened by all this is my own mortal mind. I can
feel the magick though, with every beat my heart takes. It is almost like a
strong liquor from which I can never sober from. I know it is not as pure in
origin as that which Priests hold reign to, but I am not troubled by such.

I do wonder, sometimes, what leaves the Wizard teachers across the villages to
appear so very... Incorporeal? A lot is sacrificed for the paths we follow, as
anyone should know. And indeed, my mind is strained when my body is not, and
that leaves me to wonder where the future studies will take me. How much can be
handled until no more can be tolerated? Alas, I've fallen on a morbid tangent.
I mean to speak of _all_ Aislings, and so I shall... I must.

It is still too soon to know what true purpose we Aislings will hold as these
decades slowly turn into a full century. The gods are watching with interest,
no doubt, and it reminds me of a poker game in which the dealer has saccharine,
knowing smile with each new card dealt out. No one else seems to care, at least
on the onset. Even freed from mundane thinking, there is too much else to worry
about.

Mortality is not a subject anyone is eager to talk of, especially we who have
known the touch of Sgrios upon our flesh. Only those who are scarred numerous
times show any apparent wear. I certainly do not look beyond thirty, I dare say
I still hold the appearance of some flitting court maiden... If only my mind
were so unchained as theirs. The eyes... They always betray too much.

Life goes on, as the age old saying recants. Followers of the five paths and
eight dieties go about each day almost as if they were born Aislings, and never
anything before. I must admit that it grows more difficult by the day to recall
my life before I was Awakened in the twilight of the Chaos Age. That leaves me
to wonder again of the ancient temple within Mileth, the circles that glower
and seem to cackle with each new crossing. Another card that cannot be read.
Some say we will discover what the meaning behind them too late. Just like
aging, though, for now there can be only speculation. It is inherently
pointless, I could go so far to say, as all speculation does is instill a false
feeling of security. One day, we shall learn that we know nothing. And still, I
write...

The oldest Aisling I ever knew was thirty-nine when he was Awakened. I believe
he was a field worker before, his family lost to one illness or another. To
look at him, you wouldn't know that today he is approaching sixty. He is the
clearest example that we Aislings seem frozen, if not slowed, in time,
preserved for some day that only the gods can hope to guess the purpose of. And
in the meantime, we work and toil in each of our paths. Our talents, our
strengths, our wisdom increases. The land now knows many masters of their
paths, some of them have even moved on to study other arts.

Perhaps this is another gift of the light, to be protected from the ravages of
time. There has been little time to know if it makes us immortal, but I doubt
Sgrios would allow for that. This could be what Danaan wanted, to keep each of
us around as long as possible, though to what end? Chadul will not rest
forever, indeed, but can any number of centuries prepare us for what may come?

Foolish Aislings have fallen quickly, or so we must assume. By the mercy of
Glioca, the creativity of Deoch, and harmony of Cail- scars of Sgrios can be
healed before they grow to much is number. Each mark would seem a debt upon the
soul, until finally the Darkness claims the unfortunate. Me? I have never heard
of such happening, but people talk. Nothing can last forever, but we seem to be
preserved like dried goods for winter. By the right mixture, one near death can
be snatched away from the brink. By the powers of the gods allowing, the touch
of death can be wiped away. All of this daunts He who would claim our very
souls in the hopes of waking his Master. A follow of Sgrios would probably say
something much differently, but I have spent too much time within the domain of
the Dubhaim to be fooled. Darkness and Chaos hold no true loyalties. When
Chadul rises, he will most likely devour his Aisling followers first of all.

And Yet not even Chadul can sleep forever. No peace can last, just as no war
can (although history shows us they can drag on a bloody long time).

When does our end come? Personal, or _greater_. That is for time to tell.

Mundanes toil from day to day, and in the shadows they see the mortality that
looms before them which each day's passing. When will the first Aisling be laid
down to rest? Many have faded into obscurity, many have wandered from the known
lands of Temuair and have never come back. But Death? There has been no word of
such among our number, not permanent. The closest thing to passing is giving
up... I speak of suicide.

There is a great difference, between taking one's life and having it _taken_.
There is no doubt a willingly offered Aisling soul would not be taken with a
skeletal grin upon Sgrios' immaciated face. Those I speak _for_ , however, are
those who wish to _remain_ out of such an eternal grasp. I can offer nothing
but my halfhearted condolences for those who have gone by the wayside, where
ever they may be now. Perhaps one day, when my mind is broken... No, nevermind.

I notice I shiver as I write this. My pen too, becomes unsteady. Another winter
storm is coming, and I doubt a burning hearth at every corner could fully keep
the weather from creeping in just a little bit. I wish I could write more of
this, but the subject is shrouded in a heavy mist. It is late anyway, and my
mind is made heavier than my eyelids as I try and fathom what the age my body
does not show is all about.

And so, earlier than I would like, I close this feeble writing. The wind is
howling at the windows now, reminding me of an angry reaper that would claim
his prize. I hope I should look back on this scrap of parchment and laugh, or
perhaps I'll unfold it on my dying day and see what amount of truth I was able
to touch upon.

The future is uncertain, and when writing of it, one can only close on similar
terms.


_Katrionah Rosalette, Wizardess of Luathas._  
_Deoch 20_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Katrionah_Timeless.html .
```



