# Darkness and the Dubhaimid

_by Katrionah in **Dark Ages**_

The horrific legends are unmistakable. The look, the very _mention_ of the name
evokes upon any face tells the grim tale just the same. The dubhaimid, or
_dubhaim_ as some have come to call them, are without a doubt a chilling
reminder of the dark days of centuries past. It nearly goes without saying of
the fear, loathing, and madness that came with the horrid stretch of discord
and insanity that gripped the world for so long.

It was in these days of chaos and dark, that these horrific beings emerged into
the frenzied world. No one has ever been able to honestly say from whence they
_truly_ came from. Some say the very bowels of the earth were opened by the
cries of restless souls forever barred from the eternal peace of the Hy-brasyl,
allowing the dubhaim to emerge into the world and spread their destruction and
torment.

That however, seems an odd solution, one sounding more of myth than fact, one
simply built around the story of the fall. Yet who can say for _sure_? The
records of the years of endless dark have been since lost, forgotten, or
corrupted though one way or another by numerous retellings.

What we know even now is but a small amount, to say the least. History seems
more apt to describe the exploits of past heroes than past horrors. And
anything _else_ said to be historical fact, could simply just be out of
speculation adding to all this, a feeble attempt to fill in the gaps of a
hopelessly ancient and shredded tapestry.

However, in the tradition of this speculation, I find it only natural that even
I should add my theory to the mix. What can hurt what has nearly been destroyed
as it is?


The dubhaim appeared in the world just as the era of discord began. They seemed
to, and perhaps still do, embody every evil and hellish aspect ever known, or
to become known. Their look, their movements, their very air radiates with all
these and more to this day and generation. Perhaps, they are evil itself
incarnate, or whatever other dark aspect that may come to mind.

If one merely observes the ways and appearances of the denizens of this
twisted species, they will realize the subtle but significant connections.
Smaller, weaker members of this race, for instance, the Fiend Pupa, may be an
incarnation of petty disputes of sorts. Those for example being jealously,
hate, lust, greed, and countless others it would seem.

The relation of these emotions and _this_ variation of the dubhaimid, are
actually quite simple when both taken in account. The Pupa are what one could
call the infants of the demonic race, leaving them the potential to grow and
mature to their full horrid expectation with due time. This, ironically, goes
just the same as the so-called sinful emotions mentioned before. All of these
petty feelings can grow more fervent and consuming, just as the Fiend Pupa
mature and strengthen physically as well. It would seem through all this, that
the dubhaimid themselves seem to represent such dark human emotions.

Of course, all mentioned above is only theory, it by no means signifies that is
truly the case. The dubhaim could simply be a typical race of monster, just as
goblin or harpy. In fact, the dubhaim could easily be written off as just a
typical horror as those said there.

Though history has managed to clearly state that this is not their case. The
_true_ horror of this species seems to lie deeper than just their gruesome
appearance and violent ways, the mere sight of them can evoke a feeling of
terror or anxiety in even the bravest of hearts. Even those who regularly hunt
within the walls of their dark castle dominion cannot seem to fully shake these
feelings, as if the fear from them has been embedded within by heritage. It
goes without saying, that is not a typical reaction to such creatures, only the
dubhaim have ever been recorded as having an ever-present air such as this
about them. It is an eerily odd phenomenon, yet at the same time, it makes
perfect sense.

No one, unless perhaps mentally touched or deranged, can say they like the
experience feelings such as hatred, terror, pain, and sadness. And though
feelings such as lust and greed are considered on a different level as those,
they are still of course considered wrong and immoral.

So why is it, that when the Dubhaimid first appeared, that it was just shortly
after the world had slipped into its era of chaos? It may not be so curious if
the race were to have come about centuries later, evolving into our chain of
life just as any other animal, but their ironic, almost symbolic, arrival into
the world, cannot possibly be dismissed as a _coincidence_.

For that reason, it may very well be true, that the dubhaim were born of our
own infant strife of the time, thriving upon the fear and terror they ravaged
upon the land. If the dubhaim, if it were even possible, were able to appear
during the time of the Hy-brasyl, that could have led the race to simply
flounder, and then die out. After all, the era of the Hy-brasyl was that of
unending peace, filled with no sorrows or regrets, if they lacked the dark
emotions that needed to survive, then it would only be natural they would
simply fade away in that time.

Sadly, that has not been our case, the dubhaim are like a horrible myth turned
reality. All the same, they are a reality, and we are left to deal and even
contend with them. A simple solution to their dark presence would be to end our
years of struggle, and revive a new era of everlasting peace.

It is not that easy, nothing ever is. The world has finally come to somehow
balance the ways of light and dark, though it is a dangerously delicate one. We
are better off than in our era of chaos, yet we are far from attaining the
harmony as with the Hy-brasyl. Simply put, we can only deal with it. If we must
live with these dark feelings, then we must also live with the dubhaimid. Their
existences will ever be a grim reminder of the strife we mortals have been
cursed with.

We must still keep in mind that does not mean all is lost in that sense. We
have our contentment, though it is sometimes wavering by the presence of the
darker feelings, nonetheless it is there, and we need only recognize it. To
simply give in to the dark, would be the end of all, which in turn could been
the Dubhaim would evolve into a race ten times more horrific than their current
incarnations. Best not to look only upon the worst case scenario though, as
long as a pure heart remains in this world, the darkness cannot gain _total_
control ever again.

That seems to be another simple aspect. Perhaps, we do not realize how close we
are to being lost within another sea of dark. It could even happen within the
next century, the next year, even _tomorrow_. Only time will tell. So, in that
sense, we must never forget the terrors of past years. Instead of pushing them
away, we must learn from them in spite of it.

The dubhaim may even be a small blessing in that sense, their existence means
we cannot simply force the memories from our minds so easily. From them, we can
learn that history does not have to repeat if we only strive hard to prevent
it.

And so, if true, everlasting peace were to return to the world, would the
Dubhaim be able to survive any long? If it ever happens... If complete harmony
ever reigns again, only _then_ will we know.

But _besides_ all that, I am sure you have all heard the old saying... _Those
who do not learn from the past will be doomed to repeat it._

Merry Part, dear friends...

_Katrionah Rosalette_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Katrionah_Dubhaim.html .
```
