# Wizards and their Magick

_by Kedian in **Dark Ages**_

Wizards, throughout history, have been the target of merciless racism and
antagonism. We are accused of "violating" nature, of "accosting" natural order,
of bending the fabric of nature to meet our will. There are those who would say
that wizards are evil; that the craft corrupts their mind and spirit, and fills
their very soul with the evil of the dubhaim. "Wizards", these people say, "are
the greatest evil ever visited upon us."

I was told that once by a priest, a fair lass whose name I shan't mention, but
I say to you all - wizards, by themselves, are not evil. While it is true that
the wizard possesses great powers, it is not the power, nor the training, that
makes him evil. Men are good individuals until exposure to the Darkness around
us corrupts them. For instance, have you ever wondered what magick really is?
What it is caused by - in essence - how magick works? We all know that fire is
created by heat. Even a child knows how a wheel works. But we have come to rely
a great deal on the magick around us without knowing what truly infuses it -
what gives rise to this power around us.

I have studied the wizard craft for a long time. Looking back, it seems like
aeons. I am close to rising to the third circle, and while the most advanced
magic still baffles me and eludes my mastery, I have come to several
conclusions about the essence of magick.

Long ago, a master of the art taught me that every person, every living being,
every creature borne of Terra and living, aligns with an element \- the four
basic elements being sal, creag, athar, and srad. We know the relations between
these elements exist, and we can even define them to some point: srad, being
weak against the power of sal, and so forth. The master taught me that magick
comes from the energy of Terra. Many people do not consider this simple aspect
of magick because it doesn't occur to them to think on such a large scale. The
earth is the firmament of not only life, but the elements. Without the earth,
there would be no magick because there would be no power for it.

I learned that every living being contains a nearly indestructible essence.
When Sgrios comes with his greedy claws, even he cannot destroy the essence,
although he can rip it from your earthly body. These essences, each aligning
with a specific element, is what gives rise to magick power.

Terra, Gaia, whatever name you wish to call it, is composed of these essences.
The mystic energy gives rise to form and color. The energy is attracted to
those who show exceptional talent, and therefore arise Aislings, ready to
challenge the status quo maintained by the mundanes, who care little about the
world beyond their own making (their souls being dull and not able to recieve
such energy) What surprises most people is that this energy has no specific
"morals". Meaning, the essences are not inherently evil or good; it is the
world, and the Darkness around them, that corrupts the neutrality into evil.
Wizards especially must fight a battle with the powers they recieve upon their
awakening to their Aisling powers; the change in their essence, the influx of
new powers, gives rise to a certain chaos within the soul. Priests have it
easier, being drawn naturally through their personalities to the healing arts,
whose goal is not to harm.

Wizards possess powerful battle magick that may be used for either evil or
good, and itis during their awakening that wizards are very susceptible to
corruption. The Darkness seeks to corrupt these wizards in their quest to
control and harness this chaos. But the Darkness does not select only wizards;
it corrupts any Aisling whose soul has awakened from the mundanes.

Along with this, we see that the magick diverges into many paths, and takes
many forms. Warriors have their magic-powered attacks; priests, the ioc that
has saved many an Aisling; wizards, the fiery attacks of srad, and so on. The
Aisling arises because his essence has been enhanced and awakened by the power
circling around him. It is up to the strength, and the courage, of the
individual, to resist either refusing the power because of the new senses it
brings about, or being corrupted and becoming a servant of the Darkness.

Wizards are but another type of Aisling. Powerful, seemingly controlling the
elements, they strike from afar with often deadly force. But do not brand us as
agents of the Darkness, for not all of us are so easily corrupted by the likes
of Dar, who accept the darkness as part of the craft. I have known many Wizards
who never do anything to harm their fellow man and live their entire lives
trying to help their fellow Aislings.

So, the next time you see a wizard, look again. Do not dismiss him on hand as
evil, as the servants of Rhiannon often do, for you are commiting a crime
greater than any the wizard could ever do. For if you dismiss him off hand,
with no thought, you create divisions in between the users of magick. Divisions
which lead to chaos among the Aislings fighting for a common cause - to exist,
to live, to make better this world enshrouded by Darkness. Aislings, while
having different methods, all seek the same goals, and we should all remember
that. The next time you pray to Danaan at the altar in Mileth, perhaps you
should ask her for the ability to look upon your fellow man with a kind eye and
a word of praise. For it is the Darkness that seeks to divide us, and if we let
it, all will surely be lost.

_Inscribed for the benefit of Aislings everywhere._
_Kedian Tassadar Ta'Null_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Kedian_Magick.html .
```
