# The Coming Dawn - Signs and Portents of a New Age?

_by Klaudaryn in **Dark Ages**_

For centuries, we the people of Temuair have lived our lives passively and
relatively comfortably in the shadows of blissful ignorance. The Dark Age,
which had descended upon us after the legendary fall of the Aosda civilisation,
has sheltered and protected our frail consciousness.

Through the thousands of years and countless generations since, man has grown
arrogant and greedy. Though the Gods would prefer to keep certain secrets
forever beyond our grasp (as seen with the sinking of Hy-Brasyl), we have
nonetheless chosen to walk our own path.

## The First Sign - Resurgence of Magic

The rediscovery of the elements and their magical properties have progressed
from refinement to refinement. Wizards born of wizards, who in turn were
offspring of wizards themselves, have brought the miracles of the elements back
into everyday life. The wonders of elemental harnessing have given mankind a
stepping-stone on which he might eventually unravel the greater secrets of his
very existence.

## The Second Sign - The Aislings

Since the year Deoch 1, people calling themselves Aislings have begun appearing
throughout Temuair. These people, claiming to be touched by the spark of Deoch,
have the potential to harness the powers of Spell and Steel much more adeptly
than even the great heroes of the past. This new breed of man perhaps marks the
next stage in our spiritual/physical development, or could it be a harbinger of
something more sinister which is yet to happen?

## The Third Sign - The Souring

In recent years, the lessons that we have learned from over a thousand years of
conflict with the forces of Chadul seem to have eroded. Just as Deoch forsook
his servitude to the Dark Lord, numerous Aislings in Temuair have forsaken the
Light and taken to shameful and depraved practices. Where once they were sworn
to use their gifts in the service of Good, they now worship the God of Decay,
constantly calling down his wrath upon fellow aislings and mundanes for the
sheer pleasure they get from wanton carnage.

## The Fourth Sign - The Weakening of Loures

Since the inception of the Loures Emperors, beginning with the glorious reign
of Ainmeal (Danaan 2921), the Grand Empire of Loures has always been the
glowing beacon symbolizing our grand struggle against the forces of Darkness.
While some may argue that the Loures Regime has had periods of tyrannical rule
since the time of Ainmeal, it cannot be argued that without the power of Loures
holding together the bickering city states, the outcome of the War of the
Shadows might have been very different.

Today, we can visibly see the once-firm grasp of Loures slipping. Already, two
city-states have claimed autonomous rule, completely disregarding the authority
of the Emperor. Mileth, once a prosperous and peaceful rustic city, now finds
itself the spawning pool of heretics and Dark Aislings. Rucesion City was once
the hub of noble underground opposition to the Loures Regime. Now it finds the
curse of bureaucracy and self-government thrust upon it. Noble insurgents have
sacrificed their ideals to secure positions of power in the new authority. The
cycle begins again, only now bickering diplomats have replaced a firm Emperor.

Who can tell how many more cities will follow suit? How soon the rallying
forces of Darkness realise the splintering of the human alliance and decide to
embark on another bloody crusade?

## The Fifth Sign - Stirring of the Lesser Races

In recent moons, a war had erupted between two of the lesser races of Temuair.
The Goblins had invaded the Grimlok caves in Pravat on the pretence of
recovering shards of a sacred stone belonging to them. The Grimlok in return
refused these claims, instead stating that the shards were bits of their own
sacred stone. These two races then appealed to the human Aislings to aid them
in their quest. Despite giving several warnings, Loures was unable to
prevent these Aislings from meddling in the affairs of these two races, and in
fact was seen to have not even tried to enforce the King's will.

More disturbing was the fact that the Gods had their hand in this issue. As if
in bitter competition, the Gods themselves urged the Aislings on to gather more
of these fragments for the two lesser races. In return, the certain gods
granted their followers the ability to summon forth spirit creatures from the
abyss; to what end we have yet to see, for these events are taking place as
this treatise is being written.

## The Sixth Sign - Unveiling of the Conix

The Fifth Sign was merely a prelude to a darker, more insidious sixth. Many of
the Aislings recruited by the lesser races blindly went about gathering these
dark fragments, little knowing the significance of their actions. Few actually
paid heed to the last sane words of the Imperial Librarian or the Imperial
Scholars who tried to warn them and educate them on the importance of these
fragments. Once knowing that they existed and where to find them, these
"Aislings" greedily rushed in without a care or fancy, only wishing to appease
the growing emptiness they felt inside.

Even fewer read the scrolls and notes pertaining to these fragments, but those
who did were brought to the brink of realisation and insanity. The fragments
were in fact Aosdan artefacts, of ancient power and mystery. Still, the damage
has been done, and perhaps it was wiser that these fragments were never to fall
into the hands of Aislingkind. And yet, we can only guess as to what the true
intents of the Grimlok Queen and the Goblin Chief were, and whether the "war"
was indeed instigated by a higher power.

## The Seventh Sign - The Dreams

Subsequent to the discovery of the Conix Fragments, several aislings and
mundanes alike- especially the very young children, have recently complained
about a spate of bad dreams in which they found themselves to inhabit the
bodies of strange people in strange and alien lands. Artists have gone insane
attempting to recreate the ecstatic visions they claimed to have glimpsed in
their nocturnal wanderings. As yet, I am still in the process of investigating
these incidents, but I fear the worst is yet to come.

## Observations

It is my observation that perhaps even the Gods have a hand in this chain of
events. The newer gods of Temuair seem to be urging on their followers on their
path of discovery, almost as if on schedule with a hidden agenda. The Other
(Elder) Gods are all but forgotten, and we can only guess as to what extent
they have their hands in our fate. As legend goes, the wise men of Hy- Brasyl
sealed their own fate when they chose to meddle in affairs which they had no
place in doing so. The secrets of Unknown Kadath, which were never meant for
mortal comprehension, heralded the beginning of the end of a Golden Age. Now,
as we stand on the threshold of a brand new age of discovery, the question is
not so much _"Dare we cross it?"_. We should really be asking ourselves
_"Should we cross it?"_.

_Klaudaryn Armagh_  
_Deoch 6_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Klaudaryn_Dawn.html .
```






