# A Utopian Society

_by Korda in **Dark Ages**_  
_Tyrant, Misogynist, and Labor Merchant_  

_Dedicated to Cliona, Etienne, Kedian, and Katrionah, who all did a wonderful
job as demagogue, despite what some may think._  

## Government as it Exists Today

For as long as men have existed, they have had government. It began simple
whoever was the strongest person would rule the weak. Unfortunately governments
like this were very unstable, as someone stronger would eventually overthrow
the former ruler. This led mankind to believe that other ways would be needed
to ensure stability in their land. It was this idea that influenced the many
different kinds of government that we have today.

Mileth is our social experiment. While Suomi, Rucesion, and Loures each are
mundane controlled states, Aislings have been allowed to take over the
government of Mileth. Many of our numbers have expressed a wish to create a
utopian society, one in which all is perfect. These Aislings want no corrupt
politicians, no vote soliciting, and no abuse of powers. This is all well and
good, but is it possible? I would say no to our current governmental system,
the democracy. However, is there another way out there that could give us this
"perfect society"?

## Anarchy

Anarchy is the complete absence of government. Such a thing would be wonderful,
in certain respects. The people would have every right imaginable; they could
do anything they wanted, anytime they wanted. But, such a thing could be easily
abused, as you could well imagine. The limitation to anarchy is that all the
"subjects" in such a state would have to be perfect in order for it to work.
That is, the reason anarchy does not exist anywhere is because some men are
inherently evil, and will rule over those that are not. In essence, this would
be the same as the "might makes right" government that I spoke of earlier.

As applied to Milethian society, such a thing would likely mean the domination
of the poor mundanes. The spark of Deoch gives us much: creativity,
intelligence, wit- many things that the mundanes do not have. And, while many
Aislings would not have any desire to control our neighbors, there are those
who would see them only as a resource to be exploited. Because of such people,
a utopian anarchist society just isn-t possible. This is ironic, because
anarchy is the wish of many in a democracy who are unhappy with their current
leaders. It is unfortunate that they ask for such a thing without considering
the consequences.

## Democracy

In a democracy the citizens of the state run the government. A democracy is the
most flexible of the governmental systems, allowing much power to reside in the
people-s hands. However, there is always a danger of abuse of power. However,
democracy was made for such situations, as in most such states provisions are
made to take care of those sort of people. There are two kinds of democracies -
pure and representative.

In a pure democracy, the people themselves vote for all powers that the
government has. From laws to taxes, the people control it. Such a thing is
highly inefficient, as getting the people to vote on every little thing is
quite difficult. However, the people can rest assured that their every whim
will be instituted in their government, if a majority of the people wish it. If
Mileth had a pure democracy, Riona would be counting up a lot of votes every
time a citizen proposes a new law. Each Aisling in our city would have to go
vote quite often in order to get what they want out of the government. The only
problem with a democracy then is that some people will always be displeased,
and discontention has no place in a true utopia.

In a representative democracy, the people elect representatives, which in turn
vote on laws and taxes. This is much more efficient, as a much smaller amount
of people have to vote each time. However, there is no guarantee that a
representative will vote how his people want. Mileth currently has an
representative democracy. We elect burgesses, demagogues, guards, judges, etc.
to form a government that is supposed to carry out our wishes. A representative
democracy is theoretically quite efficient. In reality, however, most
representatives endlessly debate new laws in order to please the majority of
their voters, and it takes a while to get anything done. With all the
squabbling back and forth in the lawmaking process, it would seem that we don-t
have a golden age of politics currently in Mileth. So, we must continue looking
at our other options.

## Totalitarianism

Totalitarianism has a horrible connotation; most Aislings think of despots when
they hear this word. The truth is, a state controlled by the will of one man is
highly efficient. In return for efficiency, the people sacrifice many rights
that libertarians cherish. In general, totalitarian states have an extremely
low crime rate, because there are usually swift punishments for those who
commit them.

Imagine that the burgess of Mileth could write and interpret laws, enforce
laws, and generally have absolute power. Such would be our lot under this form
of government. A lot of complaints would be heard, I-m sure (and quickly
silenced- ) but there would be many benefits. The heretics who run amok in our
society would be quickly silenced. Theft of "dead piles" would be almost
nonexistent. However, you would not be able to do as you choose. If you don-t
like the burgess- tough. Such is the tradeoff in this kind of state. But,
because of Milethians- favor of democratic and libertarian ideals, such a
government would be quickly rejected.

## What to Do?

These three governments, in essence, make up every government that we know of.
Each one relies on a "social contract" between the government and its people.
Each body gives up some rights to gains others. They are all equal. The truth
is, any one of these could be a utopian society. However, we are always missing
a key element - perfect Aislings. In the Anarchist "state", perfect Aislings
would not hurt or enslave each other, they would help each other for mutual
benefit. The same is true with the Democracy. If all men in it are immaculate
souls, then there would be no bickering over who widdled who or who should get
somebody-s vote. All would cooperate and elect other pure Aislings, who would
rule justly. As for the totalitarian state- absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Only one who did not follow such a rule could create a utopian society.
However, even I realize that I fall within such a precept; I do not try to kid
myself.

And so we come back to Mileth-s current government. Yes, it isn-t perfect, but
as I have labored to prove, no other government is either. We all must realize
this. We, as Aislings, have a duty to create the best government possible
within our limitations. It is my belief that a good job has been done thus far,
and the non-believers who still wish for the perfect society should take all
this to heart. You could be living under much worse circumstances.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Korda_Utopia.html .
```
