# Caroun: The Sacrifice

_by Lethalia in **Dark Ages**_

Today I must have felt at least a small spark of peace from the recent days as
I found myself sleeping much later than usual. Or, perhaps it was just an
unseen force attempting to keep me from my daily chores, or from discovering
and uncovering more knowledge than I should. It's Deoch 7, 2nd moon, 4th sun, 1
PM. A voice came to me upon awakening and said to me, "Praise Deoch,
Ceannlaidir, Cail, Luathas, and Fiosachd." But where did this voice come from,
and from whom?

There are many things here that cannot be explained and perhaps there should be
no meddling in the events that are taking place. I fear I do not know. What I
will do, though, is attempt to explain what is within the grounds of Astrid and
raise some other questions that may have never entered your mind. Once you have
thought about these questions, you may wish I had never brought them to your
attention. This writing is not for the weak of heart or the frail of mind.

Sadly, Hesperos has given his own life in the ancient ritual of Caroun, but in
this sacrifice, has saved his child. The inspirational flames of light that
_are_ Deoch, the unconditional love and compassion of Glioca, and even the
destruction and knowledge of death of Sgrios were certainly with Hesperos on
this grim day. This trinity of gods is a most extreme one, yet most
understandable when viewed in a situation such as his sacrifice.

I have read the words of, and spoken in person with the child Kalliope,
daughter of the brave and loving Hesperos. She wrote that she saw a star,
shining more brightly than it had ever been seen. She believes that this was
the light and love of her father, Hesperos, to shine on us for eternity. As I
looked up into the evening sky last night, I too saw this star and for some
strange reason, my heart believes he, a form of him, or some other being
altogether, watches over us now. Perhaps this being always has, but without our
notice.

Many children were saved in this time of grief. I can only assume by the voice
of praise I heard that this legend will live on with us until the end of time.
Be that good or bad, I cannot yet say. Even so, lest we forget the gruesome
details, I would like to write a few thoughts. These children are still in
danger and need your help as long as these creatures such as kobolds and
goblins are interested in Astrid. But as a priestess and a skeptic, I will not
request your help, this must be your decision alone.

As you walk into the ancient grounds of Astrid, a stench flows throughout your
senses, seeming to attack every part of your body leaving you vulnerable. Is
this an unseen attack in itself? An almost eerie stillness surrounds you except
for the occasional cry for help or the clanking of swords. Let me say that I
believe these"creatures" to be at least somewhat intelligent at the very least.
Unless there is some unseen god or force behind their brilliant plan of
defenses. The order of power and defenses are arranged in a most educated way
as you will see in this discussion. They leave no area unprotected and are even
more protected the farther inside Astrid you travel. I'm not quite sure that
anything here is as it appears, so these are only my views and I will be
stating that things "seem" a certain way throughout my writing.

As you move farther in, you notice dirt paths that seem to have been etched
into the ground without the slightest hint of grass ever growing over them.
It's as if the grass avoids the very aura emanated by the roads. Upon examining
the roads closely and wanting to find what important fact they led to, we
discovered only two things thus far; the roads seem to form some sort of
hexagram and directly in the center of these roads there was a great dirt mound
with yet another hexagram etched into it. I'll discuss more on that in a
moment.

>From studying the creatures within the grounds of Astrid, it seems we can
divide this ancient place into three areas. The top points of the hexagram,
middle points, and lower points. The first area of Astrid, I'll call the lower
levels. It is the area where you can find the lower points of the star if it
were viewed from above. These creatures are seemingly less strong than the
creatures of the other areas. This could be a decoy. Creatures that seem to be
easy to overtake so that you do not know the next area could be fatal. I think
their weakest creatures are used as front-line sacrifices. There are creatures
here that do conjure the elements, but nothing in comparison to the creatures
you will meet in the next two areas.

The second area would seem to be the mid-point of danger for Aislings. This
area is dirty and overrun by kobolds and other creatures seeming to be wolves.
In actuality, these creatures are shamans in wolves disguise, a rather old and
timeless trick that has once again seemed to confuse the Aislings. They will
fight you seeming to be a weak wolf and at what you would think is the point of
their death, shed the wolves skin and heal themselves. They show their true
forms and will stop at nothing to cast numerous spells on you and your party,
seemingly trying to keep you from finding the ancient hexagram in the center
spot of this area. Within this hexagram, it appears that with your faith in
your god, or some other force, you can summon familiars to fight with you. They
will fight for you to the death, but know that you can also heal and help these
familiars to show your thanks to them. The help is welcome, although I do not
know the long-term consequences of these summonings. Do realize though that
they do not stay in our world for long, they have been summoned from another
plane. Also, they cannot follow you from area to area. Also realize that just
as you are able to summon, the creatures of this area are able to summon as
well.

**_But, use this hexagram with caution!_** We do not yet know of the
origination of the hexagram, nor do we know the magics worked within. This
could all be a ploy! This could be some evil doings by the creatures of Astrid,
or even worse. These familiars may not be from your god at all, but an evil
trickery. They could have you summon these creatures to lose faith in your god.
Or worse yet, to anger your god. I think the creatures of Astrid would most
certainly sacrifice their own lives to have Aislings sink to a level of evil.
Also be aware of the magic arts practiced here in this area, they can sometimes
prove fatal as well.

It seems that at the top points of the star, the creatures are the most
dangerous and protective of their territory. We'll call this the upper area. We
can only assume that the strongest and most efficient creatures are here to
guard the children they wish to use for sacrifice. This is the place that the
children are brought. There are small, dirty, fenced in cages that the children
are stored in by the creatures. These cages must be dug deep into the land as
sometimes all you can hear are muffled cries and pleas for help. These areas
are very dangerous and you should never travel alone there. There are powerful
shamen that will poison, blind and injure you in what seems like one swift
flash. Their warriors are strong and well educated in the art of fighting.
There are traps all around that will send a shock through your body and leave
you frozen and defenseless for quite some time. There are traps that will leave
you blind trying to make your way back to safety. Traps of needles, daggers or
other pointed weapons are abundant as well. The habitants of this area also
have the ability to summon familiars, but they do not seem to come from the
hexagram, rather a power they have been given, perhaps by their god. These
creatures and their familiars alike are powerful and can prove to be the
creature who will send you to meet Sgrios.

Now you should have some view of the dangers that lie within the grounds of
Astrid. Be certain that my writings do not even put a fraction of the actual
horrors contained there within your mind. The only true way to experience these
visions are to travel there yourself, but this is something I do not recommend.
And if you are very young, I plead with you, for the safety of your own life,
do not travel there! Neither alone nor with companions. If you do not think of
your own safety, at least fear for the safety of your friends you intend to
carelessly drag in there with you.

But now, as a priestess and also an objective observer, I think I must look at
this situation from another point of view. The side of the races that inhabit
the grounds of Astrid. How long have they been here? Obviously these grounds
are ancient and sacred. At least it would seem so... Did we disrupt their
ancient land by settling so close to them? Have they been in this area longer
than Aislings have existed? These are questions that I cannot answer.
Unfortunately, I do not know enough about this ancient ground to answer
honestly. But I am not quite brave enough to try to talk to the creatures
within to find out either. I just offer another point of view on the situation.
Perhaps these races have been around far longer than we have. Perhaps they are
only protecting their sacred areas. Maybe sacrificing the children of Undine
was never in their plan. These rituals have obviously gone on for a very long
time and never have the children been in such danger. At least that's what we
think...

Perhaps Hesperos had uncovered something that was never to be seen or known by
any of us. In defense, and to keep their secrets hidden, they had to silence
him. Obviously, he escaped. We know he was safe, at least for a while, as he
taught us the lore of the goblins. Was it that the only way they knew to
silence him was to threaten him with his child? Perhaps what they wanted all
along was his life, just to be sure their secrets would remain silent forever.

Could Deoch have been an enemy to this god that Astrid was created for? Is this
part of Deoch's plan? To create us Aislings to overcome this unnamed god? It
seems rather strange to me that our lord's Shrine lies just outside this
ancient and sacred place. Which came first, our shrine to Deoch, or these
seemingly ancient grounds? Perhaps Astrid is not ancient and sacred at all.
Perhaps it is newly made by another god to attack Deoch's shrine. Was Astrid
created for a god that is unknown to us? Or perhaps even to Chadul? My body
shudders at this thought.

Was Hesperos' sacrifice more than just the salvation of his child? Within this
star he seems to shine, will he return by the grace of a certain or even
unknown god? Was all of this started by the hatred Hesperos held for these
other races? A personal attack against them that he has brought us into? Was
this the reason they took his child? Was this the reason he sacrificed himself?
This is something that will remain a mystery to us now, as Hesperos has given
them what they wanted, his life... unless... Perhaps somewhere, sometime,
something from Hesperos will be uncovered explaining the full story of what has
happened to cause all this disruption and destruction. Knowing Hesperos, as the
bard he was, there must, **_MUST_** , be something, somewhere, that he has
written and hidden for someone to find. The only question now, is where and
when will these writings be found, if ever.

Until something more is known of Astrid, be safe and blessed. If you _must_
travel to Astrid, for whatever reason, may the gods watch over you and keep you
from harm.

In conclusion, I would like to thank Xilan, Makaveli, Pashura, BlackStone,
Ashura, Ash, Miriamele, Nakayla and all other friends and fellow guild members
who risked their lives venturing with me as I studied these areas and tried my
best to keep them safe in their hunts and quests to save the children. I would
also like to thank all the Aislings of Temuair who helped save the innocent
children who were taken from their families. And a special thank you to a very
special young priestess Talshaya, and the other priests of Glioca, who made the
great potions of life for all who were in need.

_Lethalia Horidre_  
_Priestess of Deoch_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry is considered one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Lethalia_Caroun.html .
```
