# Chadul, and the Mysterious Crop Circles

_by Lylah in **Dark Ages**_

With the influx of newer aislings, many have not learned the rich history
behind the periodic appearances of geometrically perfect pentagrams scorched in
the earth. It is known that the first of these phenomenons occured in Mileth,
followed by Piet, Abel and the mysterious Astrid. These circles have become the
foundations for some of the most fascinating caverns known to this date.

Theologians, for Deochs have theorized that with each appearance of these
circles are sites upon which rituals by faithful followers of Dubhaim have
worshipped, prayed and tried to awaken the vile beast, Chadul.. The most
intriging and seemingly factual claim to this theory is the appreance of the
largest circle to date, located within the center of Astrid.

The appearance of Astrid in Deoch 4, has given creedance to many a theologians
worst suspicions. Astrid, located Northweast of Undine is the largest, and most
powerful of the circles. Citizens of Undine and as far as Suomi have witness
great pillars of smoke, and a vile stench seemingly from rituals held within
the heart of Astrid. During the Astrid uprising of Deoch 10, the greatest
effort to awaken Chadul was made. If not for the efforts of all aislings, in
dampening down the efforts of Dubhaim's minions all salvation would have been
lost plummeting us, as aisling into Deoch's of darkness.

It is not known why Astrid's power was heightened, but residule effects of the
circle can still be felt by the unsuspecting priest/ess, who happen to walk
across its circumfrence. The effects can be slight, but are felt by a draining
of the energies, headache, and muscle fatigue leaving them susceptible to the
dark minions who still roam its grounds. A overhead view, shows Astrid to
resemble a star shaped layout, with the pentagram within the heart. Perhaps
this is why the power of its circle is more intense then those of its counter-
parts.

The later appearance of the dragon shaped formations that stand upon the
circles in Mileth, Piet, and Abel it is theorized are the result of failures to
awaken Chadul. His minions can be found below its depths for those hardy enough
to traverse them. The lower one travels, the more vile the creature. Perhaps
Chadul's power is awakened in some part by these creatures, so quick to speed
the demise of the unwary.

Some believe that it was due to a great snort from the nostrils of the evil
beast, that these formations came to be. Others feel it more logically
explained as perhaps the result of activity located beneath the earth's crust.
Whatever you choose to believe, be certain that once you step foot upon these
mystical phenomenons that your safety is a precarious thing. Travel in groups,
or pray that Chadul remains asleep.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Lylah_Chadul.html .
```

