# Community

_by Maerista in **Dark Ages**_

> _"A person's happiness is not derived from power, wealth or comfort, but from
> how he relates to the people around him."_
>
> \- _The prophet Shamshiel, from the archives of the Runic Terra Society_

Shamshiel spoke these words over 2 millennia ago, just before the drowning of
Hy-Brasyl. Alas, the people were hungry for power and control over the
elements, and they did not listen to him. The result of their selfishness is a
matter of cold historical fact. Today the circle has turned and it is we
Aislings who must now make the same choice. What is to be the future of
Temuair? The desperate individual search for power and wealth? Or a true
community of Aislings, dedicated to harmony, friendship and creativity?

As I write, in the summer of Deoch 6, our beautiful land has become embroiled
in chaos. A great number of Aislings have arisen with power as their only goal.
Whereas once there was unquestioned co-operation, now competition drives the
wedge of mistrust between us. How can we be our usual open, kind-hearted
selves, when the Aisling who wishes to befriend us may simply be looking for an
easier way to stab us in the back?

But let us not be too harsh. From my encounters with many of the new Aislings
it is clear that they have never really experienced the joys of harmonious
Community. How, then, can they be expected to choose the path of peace and
harmony when all they know is the endless hunt, and the fear and respect that
comes from power? It is our duty, therefore, to teach as many Aislings as
possible the wonders of community and the intense fulfillment and happiness it
brings.

## True Community

How can one describe such a jewel to those who have never experienced it!

* _Community is, above all other things, somewhere you can be yourself._

  A safe place where you are accepted completely as the Aisling you want to be.
It applies only to those groups who have broken through their stifling social
masks, who have learned to communicate openly and honestly. Their relationships
go much deeper than mere social friendships, for they have made a commitment to
share in each other's hopes, success, misery and despair, to delight in each
other and make each others' joys and sadness their own.

* _Community is a safe place because no one makes well intentioned but misguided
  attempts to convert, change or heal you._

  You are accepted as you are! It is okay to be vulnerable. No - more than simply
okay - it's a _blessed relief_ to be able to be vulnerable. There is no need
to pretend any more. Did you feel you could never trust again? There is no
trust like that shared between Aislings in Community. Perfect trust. You can
willingly place your life in another's hands and there is no fear, only love.

* _Community is inclusive - it celebrates the differences among us rather than
  attempting to ignore, hide or change them._

  It is also keenly aware of itself. Community spirit, once gained, is not a
permanent thing and can be lost and regained over and over again. But by being
self-aware, the community can recognise problems when they occur and heal
itself. There will still be conflict - do not be deluded for a second into
thinking otherwise - but conflict that can be resolved without physical or
emotional harm.

* _Community is anti-authoritarian. Its decisions are made by consensus._

  Whereas in a society moulded and controlled by laws, there is a rift between
those who have power and those who do not, in Community everyone is a leader.
Community can never be competitive, for competitiveness is exclusive, and by
definition exclusivity precludes Community. See the wonder in this? Where there
is Community, enforcing laws becomes almost completely unnecessary! When you
love and trust other Aislings - how can you possibly act in a way that might
hurt them?

* _There is a tangible new spirit about a group when it enters Community._

  It is as if a calming sense of harmony descends, washing away all fear and
mistrust, and leaving only friendship, love and complete commitment to one
another. When it happens, you _will_ know. You will look at your friends, and
you will realise that you trust them completely and love them unconditionally.
You will know that you can be yourself completely with them without any fear of
rejection. And, if you're anything like me, there will be many a tear shed in
happiness and joy.

I wish that somehow I could impart even the tiniest experience of community
into the soul of every Aisling. I fear that all the words in Temuair could not
do it justice.

I have attempted to explain the joys and benefits of Community so that the pain
that precedes and accompanies it will not seem so bad. Yes my friends,
attaining and maintaining community can be one of the most difficult and
stressful things an Aisling can ever try to achieve. In comparison, the Hunt is
a fun day out for mere children. All I can do is testify that Community is
worth every moment of pain endured to reach it.

So, how can we Aislings create Community among ourselves? Sometimes we are
lucky and that magickal sense of belonging _just happens_. This is usually the
route by which many fall in love with the experience - thereafter forever
seeking to recreate paradise. Once an Aisling has experienced the sensation of
being completely accepted, loved and trusted, she is changed as much as when
she first experienced the Aisling spark and ceased to be mundane!

There are those among us, myself included, for whom creating and seeking
Community is a way of life - in fact I would go so far as to say that it is the
very purpose of our existence. Nothing is more important. For these, my
wonderful family of soulmates across all of time and space, I humbly offer this
treatise based on my own experiences of trying to move from being a mere social
creature to a community one. We are forced to relate to each other for our own
survival, but most of us do not yet relate with the openness, inclusivity,
vulnerability and commitment that allows us, and those around us, to be
completely accepted and loved for who we truly are.

## Crafting Community

Firstly, make lots of friends. Friends are the raw ingredients from which
Community is born. It is impossible to tell which friendships will deepen and
which will remain shallow, so don't try to force a shallow friendship to become
deeper, or feel distressed when a friendship doesn't work out. Perhaps they
will lead you on to someone else with whom you feel an instant connection?

Be aware though that these tentative friendships, even the apparently deep
ones, are mere shadows of what can be. Initially, we always seek to form
Community by trying to fake it. We attempt to create our dream instantly by
being incredibly nice to the people around us and avoiding all disagreement,
either by not saying anything that could cause argument, or by simply changing
the subject. What we are doing is failing to acknowledge our differences. If a
friend says something that annoys us, we pretend it never happened. After all,
that's the polite thing to do, is it not? We are trying to take a shortcut on
the way to Community. Unfortunately, it's a convenient shortcut to nowhere.
Many groups of Aislings never move beyond this type of behaviour. They remain
forever afraid to be themselves, afraid of what their friends might really
think of them, terrified of rejection. Such groups enforce a terrible
conformity on their members, sometimes cruelly (and often unconsciously)
punishing those who demonstrate individuality.

I find myself hesitating to write of what comes next. It is painful in the
extreme, and is the reason why so few Aislings ever achieve Community, even
those that make a deliberate effort.

You see, in order to break free from the claustrophobia of conformity, you have
to say what you really think. It doesn't matter what about. People, events,
religions, yourself, whatever is under discussion. But you have to become open
and vulnerable, or you will never see the rewards that await those who are
brave enough to be themselves. I shall be blunt about what can happen. Other
Aislings, your friends even, may disagree with you. They will attack your
views, probably offending and hurting you in the process. If you have expressed
an opinion, they will try to convert you to their point of view. If you have
told them of a hurt or a sickness, they will try to heal you with ineffectual
words of comfort. Perhaps they will be afraid of what you have expressed.
Perhaps they will hate you for it. Here, you must be courageous. There is no
other road forward. Do not retreat safely behind the walls of your mind, back
into conformity. If you do, you will have achieved nothing. Be irrepressible in
your declaration of who you are and what you believe in.

Often, the whole group will descend into a chaotic melee of argument,
hostility, concession, attempts at healing and resolution, more argument, and
even more desperate attempts to fix everyone to be just like each other. But
our way out is not to re-establish the etiquette of ignoring our differences.
The goal is conflict-resolution, not conflict-avoidance. We must seek to
_accept_ the differences between us, not ignore them. Only then can we truly be
ourselves.

It does help a great deal if a group of friends seeking Community knows
beforehand the nature of the pain they are bound to experience along the way.
Then they will be encouraged to push on when the pain begins, rather than
withdraw and hide.

Eventually, after a period of time that varies from minutes to days, when all
attempts to heal and convert have failed, and everyone realises that no one can
cure difference and disagreement, there is a period of Despair. This is crucial
to the creation of Community. During this period, all involved must make a
choice. Do we give up our expectations and prejudices, our precious ideologies
- empty ourselves of our need to convert, fix, solve and control? Do we accept
and allow vulnerability in those around us and become vulnerable ourselves? Do
we claim the ultimate prize of a safe place in which to be completely
ourselves, or do we retreat in fear to the well-known boundaries of mere social
etiquette?

When a group chooses Community, it is the most incredibly liberating and
peaceful experience one can imagine. Suddenly, everyone can admit their
failings and weaknesses without fear. No one is condemned for who they are or
what they believe. You can be yourself, completely, without fear of rejection.
Perhaps you'll cry, or laugh, or sing and dance. You have finally come home.

## Pitfalls to Avoid

Before I end this treatise, I feel I must add some words of warning for those
who seek to follow the path I have laid out before you. When your Aisling
friends have moved into that initial period of conflict with each other, you
must resist the temptation to unite the group against a common enemy, be that a
person, guild or god. Enemy formation, as it is known, will temporarily make
the group feel more secure, but this is just another form of exclusivity, and
it will prevent Community from forming. After all, how can you be completely
yourself if you have a secret sympathy for those that your circle of friends
has chosen to despise?

Also, try to avoid choosing leaders among yourself to shoulder the
responsibility for making everything "better" for you. A Community is always a
group of all leaders. Everyone must shoulder their own share of the burden. A
hierarchy or leader only exacerbates competitiveness and the fear of rejection,
which is the death knell to any Community.

Finally, remember that even once you are enjoying Community in all its
fullness, it is not a permanent thing. It can be lost, or stolen from you. Be
constantly aware of the health of your Community and friendships. If a fight is
needed to restore openness and honesty, do not be afraid to fight. Do it
quickly and Community is easily restored.

**Be Yourself, who you want to be.**

_Harmony Be!_  
_Maerista_  
_Priestess of Deoch, 2nd Circle, Member of the Runic Terra Society_  
_Summer, Deoch 6_  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

Kedian: This is a foundational document of the Runic Terra Society and of the Hybrasyl Project.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Maerista_Community.html .
```
