# Investigation into the Origins of the Animal Forms

Although I am a dedicated practitioner of the arts of my chosen path I often
find myself wondering about how many of our techniques came to be. More to the
point, I have wondered about the origins of the four "Sugata no Kedamono" or
Animal Forms, that comprise some of our most useful and powerful techniques.
Having practiced two of these Forms in my time as a monk, I can vouch for their
overall effectiveness. However, this does not answer my question of how they
were founded. Speaking with Fight Master Berg of Suomi, I was allowed to study
the ancient manuscripts of these techniques under the condition that I would
not practice them without his permission. Much to my dismay, however, I found
nothing in them that told of the origins of the techniques or who originally
developed them. This being the case, I have observed the creatures who's names
these Forms bear and spoken to practitioners of the techniques I have not
studied. What follows is the result of my observances and the conclusions I
drew. Only the mists of time know if I am correct or not.

## Draco Form

Originally taking its name from the demi-dragons that dwell in the labyrinth
like tunnels beneath Temuair, this Form was, I believe, developed by observing
the movements of the dragon and the way it handled damage. After speaking to
brothers and sisters who practice this Form, I have found that it is much less
direct damage than I originally believed. Of all the Forms, within defense and
offense, I believe it truly is the most balanced. It is also a Form that relies
very heavily on Chi, or internal energy that many wizards refer to as Mana or
simply willpower.

### Draco Tail Kick

When talking to those who had seen a dragon close up, I was told that it often
attacked with a sweeping motion of it's tail, from either one side or the
other. With this in mind, it is easy to believe the Draco Tail Kick was
developed upon the same principle. A basic kick, performed by raising the knee
and snapping the lower leg upward is an effective method of attack.

By observing the snapping, whip-like motion of a dragon's tail, however, it is
easy to see how, when properly used, a kick from the side can have a far
greater impact than a simple forward kick. A dragon's tail is said to be able
to smash boulders easily. A snapping kick from the side, typically where armor
is either thin or not present, can easily smash ribs and or vital organs if the
person is strong enough. When enhanced by the inner Chi that is necessary to
fuel the spinning motion of the kick, it can be devastating when it connects.

The draw back to this technique, however, seems to be that the human body was
not made to move so quickly and with so much power, thus, it is incredibly
difficult to recover from the movement and only the most skilled practitioners
of the art may execute more than one kick every few minutes. Balance from the
spinning motion is nearly impossible to regain quickly.

### Draco Stance

My older sister, a Mage by profession, once told me that dragons were not born
to be fast, they were born to be sturdy. After speaking with practitioners of the
Draco Form, I can see how this is true. A dragon's body is like the hardest metal. Damaging it
is difficult at best, next to impossible at worst. Most believe this is because of the dragon's
innate magical energies. From what I have been told, however, it is a combination of things.

Primarily, it seems to be the thick hide of the dragon, however, it is also
fully able to brace against the attacks. It is on this principle I believe that
the Draco Stance was developed. By repeatedly having one's body struck by
strong blows from clubs, bokken, and wooden staves, a person learns to brace
against an impact and ignore the attack. When combined with Chi techniques, it
is possible not only to brace, but to also take the force of the impact and
channel it down through your legs into the ground at your feet. In doing so,
nearly any wound can be deflected, thus granting the person a temporary
invulnerability for as long as they can concentrate.

The drawback, however, is that the Chi reserves needed to maintain the stance
can drain a person of energy quickly. Likewise, the balance needed to brace
against the impact and dissipate the damage into the ground makes it extremely
difficult to move quickly.

### Snort

Dragon's are living engines of magical energies and a dragon's flame is well
known through myth and legend. From those I have spoken to, these are no
legend, as a dragon's flame can easily burn hot enough to melt the strongest
steel.

This magick, which can easily be attributed to Chi, is what likely lead to the
development of the Snort technique. By collecting your Chi in the back of the
throat and exhaling, you can send it forward in a scalding flame that will burn
most creatures. It does little in the way of real damage, and is used either as
a diversionary tactic, or to lure a creature out of hiding.

This technique, although easily the quickest to use and recover from, is also
the weakest technique in the Form. The reason seems to be size ratio. Humans,
in no way, shape or form, could ever hope to hold as much internal energy as a
dragon. As such, it is impossible to expel a flame that can consume another
person without killing yourself in the process.

## Kelberoth Form

Based on the largest and deadliest feline known to exist in Temuair, this Form
was, I believe developed by observing the stealth, quickness and strength of
these enormous cats. After speaking to several brothers and sisters who
practice this Form, I've learned that the Form is all about attacks, and leaves
very little room for defensive technique. Unlike Draco Form, this technique
relies less on Chi, and more on ones own body and the natural play of a
person's muscles.

However, like nearly all techniques used by monks, Chi does come into use at
certain times.

### KELBEROTH STRIKE

Typically referred to simply as a "lunge" there is actually much more to this
technique then most people believe. By bracing oneself into a crouched
position, or against a solid object, a person can spring forward and strike out
with either their shoulder, elbow or both.

Typically, this would do little more than knock something over. However, when
infused with Chi energy, the strike can do considerable damage, as the Chi
seems to harden the muscles and bones of the striking body part to such a
degree, that the person may as well be made of stone.

I believe this technique was developed by observing the Kelberoth's tendency to
pounce upon a prey, rather than rush it. By moving itself into a crouched
position, the Kelberoth seems to coil its leg muscles in such away that when it
strikes, the movement is so fast that it becomes nearly impossible to dodge or
defend against. Then, once the prey has been knocked down or injured, the great
cat can close in with tooth and nail to finish the prey off.

The inherent draw back to this technique, of course, is the massive amount of
energy used to power the strike. A Kelberoth's body is evolved to handle the
strain of pouncing without hurting itself. Humans, unfortunately, are not quite
so formidable, and the flow of Chi needed to harden one's body to make the
strike is damaging and potentially fatal.

As stated, when the lunge is made, the Chi seems to harden a person's bones to
the strength of stone. However, just because they may have the strength of
stone, does not mean they actually are stone. Many Kelberoth practitioners have
found themselves with broken bones from the practice of this technique.

### Kelberoth Stance

Based on the same principles of the Kelberoth Strike, the stance of this Form
is neither defensive nor offensive in it's use. Quite the contrary, the stance
is more of a ready stance used to build up Chi and to prepare oneself for a
massive attack. Any rogue will tell you that, when setting a trap, the tighter
you wind the spring, the harder the spike, needle or bolt while strike an
opponent when it is set off. This seems to be the principle behind the stance.

By moving into a crouched position and tensing the muscles of both the arms and
legs, the practitioners can make themselves more ready to perform a rapid
attack. While in this stance, Chi is collected in the limbs and upon movement,
is released into the muscles, temporarily giving a massive burst of Chi-
enhanced strength.

Much like the Kelberoth Strike, this stance seemed to be developed by watChing
the Kelberoth as it prepared to attack a victim. However, rather than observing
the strike, it was the preparation of the strike that drew interest. The
Kelberoth tucks it's legs underneath its body and brings itself into a tightly
coiled mass of muscle, with most of its weight on its hind legs. When it jumps
forward, all of its weight is shifted quickly, making it seem much stronger
than it may actually be.

The only drawback to this stance seems to be the time in which it takes to
collect the Chi into the muscles, and the inevitable fatigue and strain placed
upon the muscles. As with most all things in the Animal Forms, humans simply
did not evolve to handle the stress, despite the fact that we can use the
techniques with enough training and practice.

### Roar

Anyone, who has heard the howl of a wolf, the growl of a large cat or the raspy
voice of a goblin for the first time, will tell you that it is a strange, and
ultimately terrifying sound; the first time you hear it.

It is this idea; I believe that lead to the development of the Roar technique.
All monks know the call of battle well, but when amplifying their calls with
Chi techniques, the scream can become even more pronounced and cause a
paralyzing fear in another.

Cat's often growl or hiss loudly at their prey before attacking, and in many
cases, this will cause the prey to freeze in fear. By watChing these creatures
in the hunt, you can see that a Kelberoth's prey is often so terrified of the
cat's growl, that it becomes momentarily paralyzed with fear, thus giving the
Kelberoth several seconds in which to attack unhindered.

Again, however, humans have not evolved to make such loud screams, and no one
can direct them as easily as a Kelberoth does. Even the greatest practitioners
of the Kelberoth Form find it difficult to direct the scream against a single
enemy, and while the noise may cause one creature to become terrified, it can
cause another to become enraged just as easily. Likewise, the more it is used,
the more something becomes used to it, thus it can lose its effectiveness over
time.

## Scorpion Form

Based on the imitation of the giant scorpions, which dwell in the crypts and
tunnels of Temuair, this Form, I believe, was developed solely based on rapid
attack and solid defense. Likewise, it is also a diversionary from, used to
confuse an opponent or lull them into false security.

Having practiced this technique myself, I can say that it well balanced and
easy to recover from. However, it is also extremely difficult to perform and
tends to leave you open in many cases. In this form, balance and speed are more
important than strength.

### Sting

Nearly all experienced followers of the monk path know the technique of the
poison punch, in which they use the toxins of their own body to attack an
opponent. However, the Sting technique of the Scorpion Form, although the same
in effect, is entirely different in its application. By focusing one's Chi
around their fist, the person strikes at an opponent, but rather than
completing the attack, stops it just short of contact. The Chi around the fist,
which is rarely identical to the Chi of the target, breaks into the opponent's
life force and can cause considerable pain and damage. Often this damage is at
least twice that of what would have been inflicted had the punch connected with
the opponent.

Having dealt with giant scorpions personally, I can guess that the technique
was developed by watChing the motion of the scorpion's tail just before it
attacks. The poisoned stinger that tips the tail is easily seen from a short
distance, but when the scorpion strikes, it is only the tip of the stinger that
makes contact, thus there is only a slight burning sensation and many believe
they dodged just in time. However, the poison is by that time already spreading
through their body. When dealing with scorpions, it is not the hard strike, but
the light sting that often finishes a person off.

The inherent drawback of this technique is recovery time. A human body can, I'm
told, fight off poison given sufficient time. The same is true of disrupted
Chi. No matter how strong the attack, unless the opponent is finished off in
one strike, their Chi inevitably recovers, flushing the poison from their body.

Also, unless a practitioner of this Form is extremely quick to block, the few
seconds needed to recover from the Sting and strike with the intent to cause
actual damage, is more than enough for an opponent to attack and injure them
before the poison begins to spread.

### Scorpion Stance

A warrior once told me, that he'd rather fight a thousand wolves than a single
viper. When I asked him about this, he said, "Because wolves make big targets,
you can see them. Vipers are so small you have to really watch for them." This
premise is what I see whenever I observe someone using the Scorpion Stance.
Entirely defensive, the stance is performed be dropping into a crouch with both
arms in guard position. In this manner, its very easy to block an attack,
because you present a smaller target and the opponent must concentrate more to
strike you.

Scorpions have eight segmented legs and can stand as high as a few feet from
the ground, or crouch down so low that their stomach scrapes the ground itself.
Needless to say, in this crouch, the scorpion is much harder to hit because,
not only must you strike lower than normal, but now you are doubly threatened
by it's tail, which you now must get by in order to make the attack.

Unfortunately, humans do not have the multiple leg segments that the scorpion
does, thus, it is much harder for us to stay in a crouched state for long
periods of time. Also, the scorpion's legs allow it to skitter from left to
right and stay mobile. Humans are not quite so fortunate. Although it is true a
monk in scorpion stance can still move, it is much more difficult to do so.
Thus, although blocking is easier, dodging becomes next to impossible.

### Trance

The final technique of the Scorpion Form is also the most difficult to master.
Many creatures are naturally aggressive, but this is not always the case.
Nearly all creatures, however, will back down from an opponent they think is
more powerful than they are. This seems to be the idea behind the Trance
technique.

By making rhythmic motions with your body and hands, you can make yourself seem
much more impressive than you actually are. Likewise, by making rhythmic
motions with your upper or lower body, you can get a creature to focus on your
hand, for example, while you strike it with your foot. No Chi is involved, only
precise body movement.

This technique is easily attributed to the Scorpion's tail and claws. Anyone
who has fought a scorpion, or knows anything about them, knows about their
venom. However, when fighting them, you can become so focused on dodging the
tail, you miss the claw that slashes at your leg. Likewise, you can become so
focused on blocking the claws that you miss the strike of the tail until it is
too late.

The obvious drawback to this technique is that humans do not have a tail to
work with. Two hands and two feet may seem like an advantage over this, but
learning to sway in just the right way so as to get attention from a creature
is very difficult. Balance is everything in this technique. If you are off even
slightly, you may get the attention of a hunting partner, but the creature will
just continue to attack. Also, some creatures could consider it an outright
challenge, rather than an act intended to confuse them.

## White Bat Form

Taking its name from the giant white bats that live in the deeper reaches of
the crypts, this Form, I believe is the most mystikal of all the Animal Forms.
Unlike the other Forms, the White Bat, although it can be used in offense, is
almost entirely defensive and relies on Chi even more heavily than the Draco
Form. Having practiced this Form, I can vouch for its usefulness in scouting an
area that is teaming with creatures and for helping others retrieve lost items.
Speed is important, but stealth and observation seem to be the primary ideas
behind this Form

### Dark Spear

Anyone who has ever been struck by a blind trap, spell, or caught in the
explosive range of a smoky sphere, will tell you that there is an overwhelming
fear associated with not being able to see. You may hear the opponent in heavy
armor on your left, but not the one in just a loose shirt on your right. It is
on this principle that the Dark Spear was created. The attack is a punch like
any other, the difference is that Chi is gathered around your fist as you
strike. Like the Sting of the Scorpion Form, this Chi is very rarely the same
as that of an opponent. When the opposing Chi fields strike, they cause the
opponents Chi to become disrupted, causing their vision to become impaired. In
a sense, you are using your own willpower to will an opponent to lose their
sight.

Unlike other Forms, this technique does not seem to be based on the White Bat
itself, but rather on another technique based on the White Bat. The White Bat
stance allows a practitioner temporary invisibility, but that invisibility is
lost the moment a person attacks. The stance allows for an easy sneak attack,
but after that becomes useless. I believe the Dark Spear was developed to be
the next best thing by preventing the opponent from seeing you, rather than
preventing yourself from being seen.

Unfortunately, there is extremely harsh drawback to this technique. Yes, it
uses a decent amount of Chi to perform, but more to the point, it is next to
impossible to gauge whether or not it worked. Granted, a wolf under the affects
of Dark Spear might become confused and run away. However, a Kobold, which
often attacks with rapid, erratic strikes might still be able to see you, even
though you think you blinded it.

For this reason, it is a technique that is often used at one's one risk.

### White Bat Stance

Considered by many to be the most useful technique of the White Bat Form, the
White Bat Stance is a technique of surprise and defense. In regards to this
technique, it seems to be a case of "If it can't see you, it can't kill you."
Humans have no natural camouflage abilities, however, this technique allows a
practitioner to mimic natural camouflage. By concentrating on the area around
you and expanding your Chi until it forms a second skin around you, you can
seemingly "bend" the light around you so that you become one with the
landscape.

Developed by observing the camouflage of the white bat, this technique is not
true invisibility, but is rather using light to appear to be part of the
landscape, even when standing in an open field. In their home in the crypts,
the White Bat's curl their wings around themselves when they sleep or attempt
to hide from a predator. The wings do not make the bat invisible, however, the
are partially translucent, so that the color of whatever the bat is hiding
against shows through. As such, the bat appears to disappear.

The drawback to this technique is that it is extremely difficult to maintain.
The Chi flow necessary to bend the light around oneself demands extremely
focused concentration. Any erratic movements, particularly attacking,
immediately cause the light to return to normal, rendering the person visible.
Likewise, the Chi flow necessary to maintain the stance is very tiring and the
stance can only be held for about one minute. However, this is the one stance
that does not seem to impair the movement of the person using it.

### Echolocation

There is an irrational fear associated with not being able to see, and many
people develop an intuitive sixth sense when in combat to partially compensate
should they loose their vision. Echolocation is the simplest of the White Bat
and derives partially from this form of sixth sense. Like all White Bat
techniques, it relies almost entirely on Chi. By aligning one's own Chi to the
same pattern as the Chi of another creature, the practitioner of White Bat can
literally read the Chi of something else. In doing so, they can tell certain
aspects of the read object or creature, such as health, strength and in some
cases, what type of creature it is.

This technique seems to be based on the way the White Bat's navigate in the
labyrinth like areas of the crypts. Bats are creatures who live in darkness.
For this reason, I believe they have very poor eyesight, and I am told they
emit shrill cries to tell where something is so that they can fly around it.
Naturally, humans cannot emit such a shrill cry that it echoes back to us. Our
bodies have not evolved to do so, and emitting such a loud sound would most
likely give away the person who would otherwise want to remain unseen.

There is very little that could be considered dangerous about this technique.
It is silent in both practice and execution; except in the case of monks who
prefer to use a litany to align their Chi rather than simply concentrating. The
one drawback is its effective range. Chi, if it goes further than a few inches
from the body, does not function correctly and can give misleading information.
For this reason, the technique is only accurate up to about 2 paces away.

_Miray of Undine_
_She who walks the path of the monk_
_Devout Follower of Glioca._

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Miray_Form.html .
```




