# Dark Reminders: Theories Regarding the Scars of Sgrios

_by Nagisa in **Dark Ages**_

## Introduction

The implications of the darkness are an often pondered and debated topic by a
great many aislings, and with obvious cause. While many would reject the
followers of Sgrios as being horrid, wrathful beings who seek only the undoing
of what others have strived for, the power they hold is undeniable. Who among
us who have witnessed the summoning of the Dubhaimid at the hands of mighty
priests could ever again refuse that it is of incredible strength? That notice
and dark appreciation have caught the spirits of many an aisling, and research
and philosophy has gone to the very depths of what one might hope to be
understood of it. A certainly recognizable example of this would be Daravon
Ragnar's work,
[Nature of the Dark Masters](Daravon-Treatise-on-the-Nature-of-the-Dark-Masters.md),
among others. In reading those, it becomes quickly and increasingly apparent
that this is a topic worthy of time to further knowledge of it. While the very
nature, beliefs and thoughts regarding Sgrios, Chadul and the Dubhaimid have
much left to be addressed, and will probably never be fully understood, I have
set the focus of my work over these few days on an aspect known very well to
all aislings, young and elder alike. I seek to define and educate of the Scars
of Sgrios, a dark reminder we have all had set upon our souls at some time.
Here, I will offer my theories regarding their purpose to their creators, their
meaning to the poor person that falls to them, and the nature of the act of
removing them, replenishing what was lost.

## Relation to Sgrios and the Dubhaimid, and the Purpose they May Serve

It would go without saying, of course, that these are not scars by the normal
definition of the word. They are not mere tissue which closes deep wounds
literally, but rather a magical form of energy derived mainly from the recently
established 5th element, darkness. They occur similarly in a sense, as they
take the place of the energies that compose a conscience which are lost in
death. When a life comes to nothing, Sgrios and his servants rip away a small
part of it as they send it back to the world of the living (this will be
discussed later), which can be seen in the loss of the experience obtained
through life. This can create serious issues in both physical, mental and
emotional strength.

So it must be realized that the act of imbuing one of these horrid energies
into an aisling must hold use to someone, as it would be done at the cost of
the will of that which creates it similarly to any form of magic. Even the
infernal beings that lay the scars upon their victims souls would not do so
without some result beneficial to themselves or those that they watch over.
Their exact purpose, and who it would assist, is not yet understood. I have
prepared theories on this, which follow:

### Punishment

As would tend to be the first example of this which comes to mind, the scars
may issue a form of punishment on the recipient for sake of ill preparation or
failure to successfully engage the opponent who dealt the fateful blow. As
mentioned, they can be quite taxing on any who befall them in innumerable ways.
A loss in experience hard earned also means a difficulty in progression, and
ultimately, a loss in potential strength. This forces a far higher degree of
devotion and skill in the person it affects, and would cause those things to be
practiced, perhaps preventing a repeat of the original error. It is easily seen
that this would be an effective solution to a person dying at personal fault.

Also, despite inciting a solution to the problem, they can also punish in way
of harming socially. Should a legend display a high number of scars, others may
question the person. This could be harmful in finding hunting partners,
gathering political support, and so on. Again, this could also end in a more
intense drive to avoid receiving additional such marks.

### Replenishment of Darkness

All elements can be deplenished, as signified by the necessity of fior and
elementalists. As darkness is in itself an element, it would require a source
of continuation to continue. While it does, of course, grow stronger naturally,
deaths are so often and destruction so plentiful in a significantly corrupt
society (an issue for another day), there would have to be an addition source
to allow it's operation without pause. Now, the soul could be called the
strongest form of magic known. Is it not plausible that a portion of an
aisling's soul, torn away in his defeat, could be broken down or diluted into a
larger amount of a lesser magic, for example, the darkness? The gap that this
creates could then be filled with an amount of magic already possessed by the
dark creatures, in the end gaining more than they lose in the process. With so
many deaths each and every moon that passes, this could create an almost
infinite source of power for Sgrios and the Dubhaimid.

### Persuasion of Power, Establishment of Following

It can be easily noticed in worship, common mentality, and history, among other
things, that the dark beings in question here were never the type of creatures
to accept their position; they always sought dominance of everything they
overlooked, mastery of every person under them, and power so absolute that
their possession could never be shaken. Throughout the earliest ages of our
history, both theological and recorded, this has been the way of things. Before
the name of Sgrios was heard, in the times of Chadul, this was accepted. Now,
things would probably be no different. These beings would desire only complete
rule over all of my fellow aislings of Temuaire. What better way to do this
than to provide them with a reminder that they owe their lives to the darkness,
and that without it, they could never have returned to their homes. This may be
nothing more that a symbol that the dark ones are that much closer to again
attaining the lofty position they once held.

All of these things are, of course, theories, and are open to the evaluation
of those who come across them.

## The Scarring of an Aisling, and the Resolution Thereof

Now, we all have or will experience this. Whatever the case, something can go
wrong. An unseen enemy, a personal error, a fallen comrade; any of these things
among countless others can end in a horror beyond mention, the event of your
own death. Your body is twisted in an incomprehensible direction, your
equipment falls to the ground with you in it, and in what may seem as moments,
you face one of the dark ones. There is but one comprehendible solution;
abandon a portion of who you were in exchange for the continuance of what was
lost. A portion of your soul, and other items you may have which held magical
powers, are taken for inhuman purposes, whatever they may be, and you are sent
back, vulnerable and unprepared. However, there is now something different. The
very essence of one's existence is changed, and you are accompanied by a new,
dark presence; the scar in discussion.

Some may let these accumulate, lessening their ability and humanity
continuously. In the end, they may become so pathetic or unsociable that on
their next fall, they might decide not to sacrifice any more of what remains,
and to accept the dusk of their life. Now, while I do not preach morals, I must
insist that life is always the more correct choice.

The gods Glioca, Deoch and Cail can all remove scars, presumably due to their
connection to the makings of what is lost to them. When a worshiper prays to a
god for the act, a portion of their faith is converted in to and indescribable
concentration of normal magic, capable of emulating what could be the
constructing forces of an aisling's soul. The harmful dark energy is dispersed,
and the light energy of Danaan restores what once was. Again, this is theory.

Now that the scar is gone, certain things must be understood. While this
removal is effective, it is only an imitation of the original spirit; it is not
yours until you make it so. You must fill it with more experiences to replace
those lost to the darkness. Then, and only then, would you be complete once
more.

Certainly, this is not without lesson. Remember what happened, and learn from
it. Let the trouble of removing the scar be your reason to avoid another.

## Conclusion

The Scar's of Sgrios are undoubtedly intended to devastate those they befall by
their master, but that must not be the case. I would hope that any others with
ideas or concerns about the writing or the topic it concerns might write me
((Nagisa)) with those thoughts, and perhaps, through the furthering of our
understanding, they may no longer be a problem. Thank you for your time in
reading this.

_Nagisa Kaoru, Sal Wizard_

### Bibliography & Further Reading

* [Chaltier, "Analysis of the Darkness, Light, and Soul"](Chaltier-Analysis-of-the-Darkness-Light-and-Soul.md) -
  Theories on light and dark

* [Chloe, "Reflections on the Interactions between the Gods"](Chloe-Reflections-on-the-Interactions-Between-the-Gods.md)
  Information on Gods, including scar removal supplications

* [Daravon, "Nature of the Dark Masters"](Daravon-Treatise-on-the-Nature-of-the-Dark-Masters.md) -
  Excellent work regarding the masters of darkness, Sgrios, Chadul and the
  Dubhaimid

* [Hendle, "From Whence Nightmares Come"](Hendle-From-Whence-Nightmares-Come.md) -
  some information on the Dubhaimid

* [Thissus, "Prospect of Darkness"](Thissus-Prospect-of-Darkness.md) - View of
   darkness among aislings

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Nagisa_Scar.html .
```

