# The Beginning

_The Significance of the Fragile Chrysalis_  
_by Nagisa in **Dark Ages**_  

## Introduction

All life, aisling or otherwise, must begin somewhere, at some point, under
specific circumstances. A flower cannot bloom without sunlight and
water. A polyp could not thrive in a dry or sunny area. It is
illogical then, or course, to assume that any person could begin an aisling
life without specific factors influencing its growth, development and living
conditions. Until recently, this was not fully understood or even
speculated over. Only in recent Deochs, through the toil of many a great
philosophers of Loures court, was a possible cause for aisling growth and
development studied and recorded. This has come to be called the
chrysalis of the aisling, and has already become accepted by Temauir's general
public.

## Development from Mundanity to Aislinghood

The main focus of this study conducted by the famous philosopher Jean of Loures
was the actually difference, both theoretic and physical, between mundanes and
aislings. What they found was an aether concentration within the aisling mind
and body not present in mundanes, which actually held a physically crystalline
form within the individual's flesh. Because of the form it took on, it was
coined as the chrysalis.

Mundanes are severely limited in their strengths of insight and creation by the
lack of any actual arcane powers to their thoughts and bodies. It goes without
saying that a few select mundanes, such as the modern fae priestesses and
mundane wizards, can control the powers of the arcane, but it is not present
within them as it is an aisling. When a mundane becomes an aisling, aethers,
receptive nodes of arcane power to the physical realm, saturate them and take
on a physical form to allow for existence in the tangible self. This is
necessary as naturally they can only sustain themselves in the intangible
thought processes that have come to control the arcane arts, and disperse
entirely soon after the magic has done it's work. The form they take,
interestingly enough, is incredibly complicated in itself. The aethers gather
on a scale smaller than I could accurately describe into extreme concentrations
forming insignificant portions of the body into almost mineral-like deposits in
the flesh and blood of the individual. In this way, the 'chrysalis' is not the
actual arcane content of an aisling power in itself, but rather a sign of sorts
that it is present.

The result? As the individual now has a very direct link to the realm of the
arcane, they are granted the ability to practice magic freely, to either
constructive or deadly results. In the process, they can think at a level
mundanes are largely incapable of, to create amazing works and theories. The
very things that define us and grant us the gifts of the gods are channeled
through these tiny structures.

## Specifics of the Fragile Chrysalis

Of course, it is not so simple as to just receive your strengths. A trial, if
you will call it that is present, during which the power of the chrysalis is
very unstable. It is an existence in itself, and as such, must be introduced to
our world appropriately. At first, the aethers are very loosely connected to
the physical ways of Temuair, and certainly more than the sheer will of the
aisling is needed to maintain the bond holding them. I would venture that
perhaps the gods overseeing our very days are responsible for this allotment of
time, and should the aisling gain their favor, the gods might hold them
together long enough (or strongly enough) that they can adapt to our realm
themselves and remain indefinitely. If not, then they will disperse just as
they do for mundane magic's, and the god's gifts will be lost.

Also, there are more physical factors that seem to have significant influence
on the success of the chrysalis. First of all, know that only mundanes of
specific ages can become aislings at all, which could indicate that there is a
physical strain on the person themselves requiring that the body be in it's
prime. Also, certain hereditary factors may be present, as several mundanes of
a single family have been known to gain chrysalis. It could also be speculated
that the Temuairian gods might look at families as a whole, granting several
members of which aislinghood following the example of one, or perhaps the
general example of the group.

## Address of Moral Issues

This is no lightly endeavored topic. Along with the theory that aislinghood is
manifested physically, several former beliefs, especially regarding the
unearthly relationship of Temuair's peoples to our gods, are challenged and
likely proven wrong. This in no way shatters faith, as many still have their
memories of the gods walking our land, but it puts our logic and our beliefs
regarding creation and philosophical history to the ultimate test. In regards
to this, I suggest that in every logical way, the chrysalis IS the long relied
on connections between aisling and god. It grants us a fragment of all their
strengths and weaknesses, and gives us the power to shape our world and change
our lives. How, then, could one doubt that the gods truly have a place in it's
functionality?

Also, some find dispute in the way that, should the fragile chrysalis fail, the
aisling is returned to mundanity. This can cause several dilemmas for both the
individual and all in relation, as truly a great gift is lost and may never be
replaced. It obviously impacts those individuals experiencing it, as they can
sometime be noted as receiving another chrysalis and acting as an entirely
different person. Some I have spoken to argue that the gods are toying with our
people, but that is not necessarily true. I have already argued the aspects of
a trial in this regard, and it is the responsibility of the aislings to prove
themselves appropriately. It is a trying life and one of great importance;
those of little faith, courage or potential should not walk it.

## Development of Power in Opposing Aspects

As I just mentioned, the power granted by chrysalis and aisling paths is
largely the responsibility and the duty of the person such is granted upon.
They can bend it to their will and accomplish many of what once were but wild
dreams, and so, certain issues are brought into focus in how this is employed.

A chrysalis can, and is often employed for general good. Take as examples the
priests of Glioca, who use their strengths and abilities to aid their fellows
in all the lands and improve living conditions for others. On the opposite
extreme, a Sgrios worshiper could use the chrysalis to tap the calling stone
and bring their dark god's minions to Temuair, claiming countless lives and
leaving but sorrow and destruction in their wake.

How is it, then, that the gods would allow both extremes, and all between them,
an equal opportunity? Do they not serve our realm and defend it as a general
duty? Well, one must consider that an aisling, no matter their specific
actions, contribute to our world. Every thought held to a Temuairian mind is an
inspiration and an advance for all aisling kind. Also, a balance must be
maintained, always, else overspecialization would breed in weakness. So, it is
important to fully embrace diversity in Temuair's leaders and citizens.

## Conclusions

The chrysalis is a grand gift, no doubt. With all the theories regarding the
topic that I have provided here, the surface of the study has not been
scratched. What you have read is not an explanation, or a lecture, it is a
speculation, one I intend only to further theoretic understanding and prompt
further research into the subject. If any have any thoughts regarding this, I
ask you to please contact me, as I desire to explore all topics of my research
to their fullest. I thank you for your time in reading my work.


_Nagisa Kaoru, Dean of Sal_
_Academie Arcanus_
_Student of Natsumi Kurasawa_

## Bibliography and Further Reading

(Information on the topic is very limited, although there are related works
available)

* ["Energy Theory and Magic" by Chupaca](Chupaca-The-Energy-Magic-Theory.md),
an excellent theology on the nature of arcane energies in general

* ["The Force of Magick" by Deskar](Deksar-The-Force-Of-Magick.md), an
alternate theology on the functionality of aisling magic

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Nagisa_Chrysalis.html .
```
