# The Overlooked Class

_by Naze in **Dark Ages**_

Perhaps the greatest gift of all is the light Deoch bestows upon Aislings. The
ability to choose your own path, to create your own legend is no small thing.
The paths offered to new Aislings seem boundless. They can learn to harvest the
elements. Harvesting holy power to aid their fellows is an option. They might
learn the cunning secrets of trapping. Some paths teach ways to fight the evils
of the world with fist or blade. Yet there is one choice that is oft ignored.
Most Aislings do not even consider it a path. Herein we shall look at the most
basic of all choices: The decision to not choose.

Every Aisling in Temuair owes something to the Peasant class. Not just for
their early insights, but for their very freedom. You cannot say you entered a
path freely if you did not have the option to not enter it, or any other path.
Without the ability to not choose, you have merely the illusion of free will.
You would be forced into a path, whether you wanted to go or not. A cage with
five walls is still a cage. If you cannot choose to not enter the cage, you
cannot truly consider yourself to be free.

Armor and weapons for this choice of life are neither fancy nor powerful.
Peasants must face the challenges of the world with naught but the simplest of
clothes and the most basic of weapons, which they inexpertly wield. Yet there
is no obstacle that one cannot overcome while walking this path. Make no
mistake, as a peasant you are an Aisling, and the light you posses can enable
you to achieve your heart's desire. Peasants must be brave and fight all the
harder to achieve their goals. Yet for those who walk it, the challenge of the
journey is its own reward.

Some Aislings scoff at those who choose to fight with all their heart, despite
the bravery in so doing. The downright hostile reaction of a few towards those
who choose the peasant way is frightening. It must surely be fear and ignorance
that fuels this hatred. All Aislings were peasants once, so why do some
Aislings despise peasants so? Does the courage that burns in the soul possessed
by those who walk this path pain them so? Do they fear the free spirit that
refuses to bind itself to their way of life? These Aislings must not be aware
that nothing precedes everything, that zero is the most important number of
all. Without the peasant class, their lives would have had no beginning, yet
they treat their origins with spite. Let these foolish Aislings scoff, then,
for they are surely lost.

Aoife tells us that an Aisling need no longer toil as the mundanes do. But one
who remains a peasant enjoys the toil, the challenge of overcoming the darkness
with nothing more than the light bestowed upon them in Riona's Inn. The other
mundanes do not aid peasants as they do others. No higgler will tailor nor dye
your clothes. Only a few arcane secrets will be divulged to the humble peasant.
Mundanes will only grant peasants a boon when they perform some service for
them or complete one of their quests. Only then do mundanes recognize the
peasant as a true Aisling, worthy of fighting to better their world. Luckily
those who choose to remain the salt of the earth are fully capable of helping
the mundanes, despite their lack of support.

Noble is the class of remaining free. Peasants rely solely upon their own brute
strength, not the power of some tricks and conjurings. They do not lay traps
hidden in darkness. Peasants do not conjure the elements to do their work for
them. No fancy sword tricks or techniques acquired through meditation aid those
who walk the oft ignored path. When a creature of the dark falls to the might
of the peasant Aisling, they fall from fair and honorable combat. Some might
think that this makes a peasant's victories a bit sweeter.

The mundanes will tell you that you lack knowledge of yourself, but peasants
are the only Aislings who truly know themselves. Being a peasant brings with
it the absolute knowledge of who and what you are. One must be dedicated to
the path to ascend to higher circles. There always remains the lure of the
other paths, with their tricks and fancy armors. Only one who is sure of
their own abilities will be able to resist temptation and fight to better
Temuair with only the simple skills and weapons allotted them.

So, in conclusion, we can see that the path of peasant not only exists, but
requires a very special kind of Aisling to tread its humble trail. The truly
brave and dedicated among Deoch's chosen have the option to fight the noblest
fight of all against the Dubhaimd. Any one whose soul yearns to be free can
choose to not follow in the footsteps of countless Aislings that have tread
before them and instead take the path less traveled by. And that will make
all the difference.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Naze_Class.html .
```


