# The Conix Stone & Faith

_by Paladine in **Dark Ages**_

Many interesting theories have popped up about the Conix or Calling stone if
you will, which appeared during the Entreaty or Harvest war, a holy conflict
between the Grimlok and the Goblins during the Grimlok Harvest. These stones
are revered as holy stones by both these races, yet not many know why. Perhaps
in looking deeper at aspects of such, we can start to understand why.

During the Harvest War, both sides pleaded for Aislings to collect shards of
the stone, which might suggest they grow naturally among the cave formations in
Pravat. Upon collecting a stone, one must know something about collecting it,
or go mad. Perhaps this is from the reeling power of the stone, yet even in
shards, it emenates a power such that a person without the wisdom to collect it
will go mad trying to pick it up. It makes us wonder then, if these are only
Conix shards, what is held in the real stone?

Some theories suggest that the stone is not something which emenates its own
energy, rather it acts as a catalyst to energies of religious types. When
discussed that mana exists all around us, it was suggested to me that perhaps
the Conix stone amplifies this mana. I of course, had to disagree. The calling
stone is something of Holy Value. Since, we as Aislings cannot understand the
power held within, we cannot use our mana through this stone to amplify our own
spells and skills to Godlike effects.

Perhaps discussing religious energy will help solve this a bit. Religious
energy is something we as Aislings do not possess, but can control through the
use of prayer to a God. Many misinterpret this energy as faith, but from
another standpoint, faith is simply how much devotion we have in a God. In the
polytheistic Temuair, the eight Gods whom are closest to this world take an
active part in their fellowships. It is the God's themselves which hold the
religious energy, and through our prayer to them, they can use this energy to
provide miracles to the Aislings, or through the Conix stone to summon
creatures.

The only God known to date that can summon without the help or need of the
Conix stone is Sgrios. The Calling stone itself cannot amplify religious energy
to create a greater effect of an entreaty or a supplicate to a God. Rather, the
Calling stone holds it's own energies to grant summoning powers to a God,
therefore acting as a catalyst to take the energies a God gives out and direct
them towards a summoning skill. In Sgrios case however, this would amplify and
perhaps even offer different types of summonings to the fellowship, since
summoning is an inherent ability of Sgrios'.

The God's energies differ dramatically, based on the "color", size, and force
of the energy. This can perhaps be theorized as to why different creatures are
summoned by different faiths. The Calling stone interprets each energy it
recieves and summons a monster of matching energies. For example, Ceannlaidir
can summon a Goblin, which in effect matches the energy Ceannlaidir gave to the
stone. Ceannlaidir is a very aggressive God, often hitting hard, but lacking on
some defense skills. Mainly going into to destroy as quickly as possible.
Goblins have the same attributes. They hit hard and fast, ambush to try to take
the enemy down, but lack in defense. This explains the relationship to the
energies inputted and outputted from the stone.

We also know that the use of the stone drastically reduces the amount of faith
to summon. However, the stones power is limited. In order to act as a catalyst,
it's residual effects do not remain long, thus your summoning does not remain
in the physical plane long. It's a give and take situation. The Conix stone
cannot handle much energies at once, and thus can only keep the energies in
physical form for a short period. Another interesting side note is that, unlike
other summons, those used with the calling stone are loyal to the person whom
summoned them. This could be another theoretical effect of the stone and
perhaps why it cannot keep an energy in physical form for long. Keeping
powerful creatures under the control of those who summoned them may expend a
lot of energy that the Conix stone uses, thusly keeping a creature in this
plane only for a few short minutes.

So, at this point we know that the stone itself acts only as a catalyst for
summoning energies, because that's all it possesses. Of course, our energies on
Temuair are useless to this stone, being that the stone only responds to higher
energies, thus suggested those that are given off by the Gods. The Grimlok and
Goblins I fear, cherish this stone for it's value in gold, not it's power. They
acclaim it's holy power, yet they do not understand it.

Theorizing such, if they did, I think Temuair would be in a different state
now. The Grimlok lack the mental power to use such a stone, and do not possess,
like most creatures of Temuair, the higher energies required to operate the
stone. Due to their lack of brain power, they are able to hold and harvest the
shards and stone, because it does not affect their limited thinking ability.

As Aislings, with superior knowledge, we cannot hold the stone, for we try to
understand more about it, and doing so causes us to reel in madness. It is like
contemplating infinity. You cannot do so without having your mind hurt. It is
something of a mystery to us, and reeling in the madness of the Conix is what
we do when attempting to understand the stone.

So, in conclusion, not much is known about the stone. We can only gain the
knowledge we seek through theology like this, and trial and error, which many
have done. So what does the Conix stone truly mean to Aislings? Not much is
known, but with study, and perhaps careful care, we shall seek the truth!

_Respectfully Submitted this 1st day of Deoch 7,_
_Paladine Meatha_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Paladine_Conix.html .
```

