# On the Nature of Heresy

_by Perihelion in **Dark Ages**_

No aisling of more than a Deoch can deny that strange things occur in our world
with alarming frequency. Aislings suddenly disappear in the middle of a
conversation or a fight, sometimes not to return for days. Whole areas of land
change disappear or appear spontaneously. Sometimes, we are unable to awake
from nightmares of blackness, unable to interact with our world. While the best
explanation for this phenomenon is the presence of another world I do not
presume to argue the existence or lack thereof of other worlds beyond ours.
Each aisling must make that decision alone. I wish to address the effects of
this other world upon ours.

In order to clarify the information presented here, I will define heresy as any
alteration in our lives caused by an interaction with another world. I present
here three types of heresy: heresy by thought, heresy by word and heresy by
action.

## Heresy by Thought

When an aisling in waking time indulges in active thought about other worlds to
the extent that he or she stops interacting with our world it is heresy by
thought. We see aislings in our streets, buildings and even in dangerous areas
standing stock still, comatose `((When lagging, temporarily occupied or afk
))`. It is ironic that we even refer to them as being elsewhere. Many an aisling
I have seen who has unfortunately died in this prone state.

Aislings are blessed with a supernatural knowledge about themselves and the
world. We know things that we naturally should not. `((We know our character
statistics, and the statistics required for certain events like gaining new
skills. Use of this knowledge in the world of DarkAges can be considered
heretical. There is no way for me to know in "The Real World" if I can fix a
car or lift 150 pounds until I try, but in the game we have a mechanical
advantage. This situation also applies to anyone who starts a second character
and immediately after making his eleventh insight, goes to Pravat caves,
directly to the spot where he can get conix stones. I ask, "How did he know?"
))`

We cannot police the very thoughts of aislings if only for fear of crushing the
spirit within that makes us special. Therefore, we must tolerate the invasion
of other worlds and unfounded information into our own minds and attempt to
comfort others who spontaneously enter a heretical state of mind.

## Heresy by Word

When an aisling, be it due to youth, necessity, or a temporary lack of control,
utters heretical phrases it is referred to as heresy by word. Heresy by word
can be references to objects or concepts that do not exist in our world,
references to the supernatural knowledge mentioned in heresy by thought, or use
of corrupted speech. `((modem, Christmas, "My dad says I have to get off the
internet", afk, brb, k, LOL, plz, cool, 52k tnl))` Certain concepts cannot be
related to others without the use of heresy by word. `((It is for this
instance that we make use of double parentheses.))`

`(( I must strongly stress at this point that verbal communication is a
different language from written communication, and when we type we are
talking. No writer would ever present standalone statements like, "Ok, I'll be
right there," or "What are you doing tonight?" because these statements
require the presence of a responding party. Verbal dialogue should not be
restricted to the rules of written communication. I was unable to find the
word "Yup" in any dictionary, but I hear it many times daily. Abbreviated
communication should be restricted only for its potential to confuse other
parties and not because if its grammatical impropriety. I may not understand
what LMAO means and it could cause trouble, but when I hear the word "OK"
spoken, it sounds like "k". Are we not "hearing" what is typed by others?))`

No one is born knowing the laws of our world, and young aislings should
certainly be given more lenience than the experienced. While far more avoidable
than by thought, heresy by word still has its respectable place. In battle,
speech is often a matter of life and death, and I would gladly excuse any
aisling who has committed heresy by word in hasty request for my help.

`(( We have all existed in "The Real World" far longer than our characters
have existed and our modes of speech have become very ingrained into us. For
this reason I request that laws against heresy by speech be relaxed, and an
aisling only punished if obviously deliberately using heretical speech when it
is easily avoidable.))`

## Heresy by Action

The third and most severe type of heresy is heresy by action, which, to my
knowledge, has barely been addressed at all. Heresy by action involves the use
supernatural abilities in the preservation or growth of the self. `((In a
group, when someone is skulled and logs off to avoid death, he or she is using
game mechanics to manipulate a situation in a way that should be impossible.
Also, exploitations of bugs in the game and hacking are similar
manipulations.))` No Demagogue, Guard, Burgess or Judge has the influence to
stop us from using any means possible to survive and grow. `((If they did, bugs
wouldn't need to be fixed.))` And, if somehow an official were to enforce such
restrictions, we would see the fiery glow that is aisling begin to sputter and
die.

## On the Enforcement of Anti-Heretical Laws

None of the three types of heresy explained above can be stopped. For this
reason, heresy will forever remain an issue of discussion, argument and,
unfortunately, suffering. Avoidance of heretical acts must come from within,
built out of respect for others and ourselves, and not from a threat of
banishment or exile. I ask aislings in power to forgive those heretical acts
that are unavoidable, excusable, or required for survival and growth.
Intervention should be cautionary, for, whatever worlds you wish to expand your
consciousness to, repression of freedoms of speech and action are the first
step in revolution, hate and bloodshed.

_Faithfully Recorded in Deoch 12 by Perihelion_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/2000/community/rp/Perihelion_Heresy.html .
```
