# Introduction

_by Phalos in **Dark Ages**_

Upon a woodland path, you follow alongside infinite plants of all nature. On
the northern side, beyond the farthest reaches of the path, you glimpse a set
of stepping stones embedded into the ground as if to make entrance to a
peaceful sanctuary. A small clearing in front of you reveals seven aged and
weatherworn pillars arranged in a circle. Slightly overwhelmed with the power
of the atmosphere of the very setting within which you stand, you sit upon a
rounded stone, hoping to learn more about this ancient wonder. A bit startled,
you jump up to gain stance as you view a muscular humanoid figure dressed in a
kilt of robes tied just below the belt. A gemmed eyepatch gleams at you from
under his ebony hair, and you look into his dark, bearded face; he begins to
speak with a deep voice, his accent foreign to your Aisling
culture.

## The Prophecy of Imbalance

The; words of the Druid known as Coibhi explain that the teachers of Necromancy
have been trying to give power to the path of darkness by spreading their
knowledge in a slow manner. However, Aislings have gone forth and learned the
path of necromancy, summoning hordes of skeleton warriors across the land. The
result of these summons has created an Imbalance
between the elements of Light and Darkness.

## The Druid Revelation

Druids, also known as the Draoi or Druidh come from an ancient order that has
followed closely by the laws of nature and the elements. Practicioners of
divination, magic, and sacraficial rituals these non-Aisling beings consist of
three classes. The Druids 'Proper' is the priest equivalent of the Druid which
study nature's usage of healing, while the Bard is the Druid that helps spread
knowledge by word of mouth as well as teach the young. The Druid Coibhi found
at the stone circle beyond the garden is of the Vates class, commonly known as
a prophet. The Druids have kept themselves invisible to all Aislings until they
realized our capabilities of destruction upon ourselves. Recognizing our lack
of knowledge for the balance of elements they feel that it is their duty to
keep us well informed on events in which Aislings need guidance for balance
in all aspects of nature and the elements.

## The Stone Circle

The rough pillars of stone found in the formation of a circle have been studied
and found to be made of gray sandstone by Druidic settlements. These pillars in
theory were moved from their quarries either from the Druids' ancient magical
abilities or from their technology which varies greatly from that of the
Aislings, being based entirely of nature. A primary spot for their rituals,
these stone circles may also have been used to tell time based off of the sky
either by the sun, moon, or possibly even the stars.

Studying the stone circle I noted that there were exactly seven stone pillars.
Now this could all mean nothing, but given the symbolism and value of these
pillars to the Druids I have come to think of two separate theories based off
of this number seven. We currently know that there are six well proven
elements, and we also know of the eight gods of Temuair. I beleive that of all
the stone formations created by the Druids this one was most likely created not
long ago as it is located just outside of the Garden where Aislings have
ventured most often for hunting, making red potions, mixing herbs, and even for
joining one another at the Lover's Glade. If this is the newest stone circle it
may help us to prophecize what is to come in the near future.

## Theories & Prophecies

Six - is the number of elements we have proven to ourselves time and time
again. The four primary elements as well as the elements of dark and light
which we know are currently imbalanced. I asked myself, What could this last
stone pillar be for? After venturing across Temuair to the Library of Loures I
spent a good day reading through endless scrolls in search of the answer. At
last I had found it, a scroll written by the priest Chaltier, writing about his
analysis of darkness, light, and...Soul! Now I'm not going to waste your time
writing about something that already has been, so take a look at it yourself. I
feel that if this number of seven indicated by the Druids is representing seven
elements that we as in Aislings are one step forward in the discovery of the
soul element. I attatched a drawing based off of my memory of the druid circle
below including the placement of the seven elements in their possible positions.

![missing](./images/missing-image.png)

Before leaving the stone circles for my evening nap I decided to take one more
look around the area to see if I thought there was any more symbolism out of
the formation of stone pillars. I did not find much, except that there was one
pillar that was just barely exceeding the circle formation. Now thinking of the
eight gods and the fact that darkness is brought out through the god Sgrios and
light from the goddess Glioca, I begin to realize the correlation between the
imbalance and the separated god. The stone outside the circle could either
represent the power in Sgrios growing beyond the others, or it may represent a
fall back in the light side of religion.

## Conclusion

I believe that if either of the theories are true, we must seek out the culture
and guidance of the Druids in order to keep ourselves thriving and balanced. We
know that druids have close ties with the elements, but what we do not know is
whether or not they share the same fellowship with our gods, or whether or not
they would use them to send us this prophecy. Either way I believe that
something will happen in the near future, its just a matter of our recognition
of it as well as our preparation for it.

I would like to thank my editor Alaranth for helping me complete this writing,
those that were kind enough to show me the Druidic Circle, and I also thank the
Aislings that took the time to read this document.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Phalos_Druid .
```
