# The Spark, Innocence and Manners

_by Raen of **Dark Ages**_

We've all at one time received the gift of Spark. Goddess Danaan having seen in
us something special to be shared with our fellow Aislings, opened our minds
and incited an excitement that cannot be replicated.

Not many can remember what their lives involved before receiving the Spark, but
some mannerisms are innate within our psyches.

Innocence is one. All we once knew erased leaving our minds open to be filled
with new knowledge. Innocence is that feeling of being open to new ideas,
places and things. Innocence can be a swift rush of adrenaline, tingle or pull
at the nape of your neck, or an uncontrollable urge to bark at the moon. An
overwhelming excitement, as new ideas replace the old. New skills learned and
friendships made.

The second quality is Manners. Using good manners in everyday dealings is one
way to show others that you respect them, value them as Aislings. Manners are
being polite, contentious of others and feeling empathy for you fellow
Aislings. Manners take no longer to use if one is busy, then barking out a
surliness reply if one is not in the mood to be bothered than a polite
response. In fact, being curt often tends to tarry one much longer then a
polite "I'm sorry, nay today" or what ever response the situation calls for.

Ill manners breed Ill manner. When one is given a courteous reply or greeting,
it leaves an indelible impression that is pleasant. That pleasant feeling is
then carried on into their dealings with others. If one is responded to in a
curt, biting reply, that ill will breeds contempt, which is spread to any
unfortunate Aisling who happens to cross their path.

The following passage is an excerpt from a Mass I once attended, and I have
been given permission by the Gliocan priestess to use it within this
dissertation. I find this a grand example of manners and feel it proves my
point of how ill manners affect one's dealings.

Somae: "I was resting recently near the Mileth Altar. A grand place to Aisling
watch and meet Aislings new to their spark. Of most interest was two young
Aislings, both peasants. One carried his stick, swinging it with gusto, the
other smiling politely and biding his time.

Each time a warrior would pass by, the young boisterous Aisling would run up to
them battering them with his stick and yelling "Make me a warrior!". Many times
this young lad was ignored, other times he was responded to with contempt and
made fun of. He was undaunted though in his pursuit, continuing to batter
forward.

One well seasoned warrior paused a moment to reflect at the Altar, when forward
this head strong young lad came battering away at the warriors back, exclaiming
"Make me a warrior!" The warrior, pulling up to his full and impressive height,
merely told the boy no. Leaning against my perch, the warrior winked to me and
tugged at his helmet. I smiled at his show of politeness in acknowledging I was
there.

I leaned forward curious as I watched the second young lad approach the
warrior. He bowed if not a little shakily and asked "Many pardons M'lord, if
you are nay busy would you do me the honor of showing me the ways of the
Warrior?" and I smiled, nodding to myself that this young lad knew well how to
use good manners and would be better off for them. I passed by the Mileth altar
later that eve, and smiled to see the second young lad wielding a shield and
epee. What become of the first young lad you ask? I also saw him later that eve
still in his peasant clothes battering the backs of warriors"

This excerpt shows perfect example of good manners and innocence in use. The
first young peasant, innocent, his excitement barely containable drove him
forward without rhyme or reason. Had he shown good manners in his request of
becoming a warrior, his exuberance would have been well rewarded.

The second lad, also innocent in his pursuit of knowledge paused, reflected and
approached the seasoned warrior with good manners and was responded to in kind.
His goal achieved, he became a warrior.

In conclusion, receiving the Aisling spark is a gift. It opens our minds to
innocence. Later to be filled with much knowledge, new friends and legends won.
Manners only enhance what we achieve, and carries us to greater heights.

*special thanks to Somae Alea for allowing the use of her liturgy in the
writing of this article*

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Raaen_Spark.html .
```

