# Grimlok & Goblin Society, Social Structures, and Lore

_by Ramanayan in **Dark Ages**_

_Greetings aisling! I have always had an interest in the Grimlok and Goblins of
Temuair. I've spent some time researching the lives of Grimlok & Goblins and
have put together this scroll. It explains about their Societies and Social
structures. I've also included a little lore if you want some information
about where to find them and such. I hope you find this useful._

_Ramanayan_
_Servant of Fiosachd_
_Deoch 19, Winter_

# The Grimlok

The Grimlok are an interesting group to study. They can be found in only one
place, the **Pravat Caves.** It is widely accepted that the Grimlok did not
originate in Temurair, but from somewhere unknown. A popular theory is that
they were somehow transported by dark magic from there homeland to Temurair and
they are attempting to return by using the Conix Stones (more on that later).
After doing some research of my own I believe I have somewhat figured out where
they came from. To the west of Suomi there are nearly impassible mountains
witch guard a path to what we would call "The Western Lands". I believe the
Grimlok once lived in these "Western Lands" and somehow were transported to
Temurair and are now seeking to return.

Grimlok Social Structures- The Grimlok are ruled by a **Queen** , who has
absolute power. The leader of the Grimlok is chosen by height. The tallest
Grimlok is made leader of all. After the leader dies, the search for the
tallest begins again and then the tallest is made leader. If you have ever seen
the Grimlok Queen you will agree she is the tallest Grimlok there is. There are
a variety of Grimlok types. The main types are **Workers, Soldiers, and**
**Warriors.** What a Grimlok will do in life in determined simply by, what that
Grimlok is best at. If a Grimlok is an excellent stone miner, then he will be a
miner. If he is an excellent combatant, then he will be a warrior. A simple but
effective system. The Grimlok society is task oriented. Grimlok are not paid in
money or such, but are given what they need live. There is no want or desire
(to a certain point) in Grimlok life. Also Grimlok do not "marry" as we would
think of. Again this is based on the task orientation. For example say we have
2 excellent male and female warriors. The Grimlok believe if the 2 become mates
the chances of producing an equal or greater warrior is good. So Grimlok
"marriages" are based on the bettering of Grimlok society, not love or such.

Grimlok Society- Each type of Grimlok plays a different role in their society.
**Grimlok Miners (Proles)** generally do not fight but will if need arises, as
they are weak combatants, and one can often walk among them without being
attacked. They carry mining clubs witch they use to mine. Their main task is to
search for minerals (coral, beryl and such) and also look for the conix stones.
If one is killed he will often drop some type of mineral. **Grimlok Soldiers**
are the workhorses of the Grimlok fighting force. Grimlok soldiers have several
tasks. Where one sees some miners, most likely soldiers are somewhere nearby.
They generally protect the miners from harm. They also will attack any
outsiders not allied with them without question, and be warned they are quite
strong combatants. If killed they often carry some kinds of minerals and
sometimes-magical items that they picked up from aislings they have killed.
**Grimlok Warriors** are the most feared and respected Grimlok fighting forces.
These are found only in the deeper parts of Pravat and do protect the miners as
soldiers do. There main duty it to attack non-allied outsiders on sight, and
they are quite good at it. They carry what I would describe as "a long,
twisted, and sharp tip dagger". Should you encounter one you will find them
quite difficult to kill. If you do kill one you will often find minerals and
magical items and perhaps some coins.

## The Goblins

The Goblins are in many ways different from the Grimlok. Goblins can be found
in quite a few places. They are found in the deeper **East Woodlands, Astrid,
Undine Field, and Pravat Caves**.** The goblins have existed for many thousands
of years and are native to Temurair.

Goblin Social Structures- Unlike the Grimlok, the Goblins have no absolute
leader. Part of this is do to the fact the goblins exist in many places across
Temurair and communication is difficult. Goblins often dwell in small groups or
clans in different areas. Leadership types vary from clan to clan but often
will have an elder at the head of the clan. Unlike the Grimlok, who are task
oriented, the goblins seek personal gain rather then for their culture as a
whole. Goblins all most always are carrying money with them into battle and see
nothing wrong with want and personal desire. Their culture in this aspect makes
it similar to human culture in a way. The different clans do sometimes fight
one another in clan wars but this is not very common and usually happens when
little outside forces threaten their clan. Another difference from the Grimlok,
who have only 3 main tasks, there are many kinds of Goblins, who all perform
different things. Goblin types vary from place to place they exist.

Goblins inherit their positions from their parents. For example if ones parents
where of a noble goblin class one would most likely become clan leader or such.
Some goblins are quite religious and follow various gods. Most famous are the
Shamans in Astrid, famous for there deadly dubhaim summonings. Most goblins,
believe it or not, live in small wooden shelters for homes. Some in the East
Woodlands will even allow an aisling into their home for assistance in creating
special armor. Another similarity between goblin and human culture.

## The War of Pravat Cave

Until sometime in Deoch 16 both Grimlok and Goblins lived in Pravat cave. There
was a war in pravat between them and they hired any aislings with 11 or more
insights who would help their cause. Both were seeking the conix stones buried
in the caves. Aislings could choice to ally with the Grimlok or Goblins. The
side whom they allied with would not attack them. For the Grimlok, their Queen
would deal with any aislings seeking to join their cause. Anyone seeking to
join the Goblins would speak to the Great Goblin Warrior Bahadir outside the
caves. When allied with a side one could complete a series of quests as listed
bellow: (it is the same for both sides)

Calling Stone Fragment: 10,000 experience for each conix stone given.

Gems: 500 experience per gem given.

Deities Item: (Varies) Give an item of the god you worship. If you worship no
god you can not do this quest.

Kill Enemies: (Varies, per number killed) If you kill enemies of whom your
allied with (Goblins kill Grimlok, vis-versa) you gain experience.

In Deoch 16 the Grimlok finally drove the Goblins out of Pravat Caves. With
this, allying with the Grimlok now practically grants free passage in the
caves, as no goblins are left. You can still ally with the goblins and complete
all 4 quests listed above but, there is little point unless your doing quest.
(Note: It is not possible to do quest #4 when allied with the Grimlok)

## Grimlok and Goblin Lore

This section deals with the creatures of the Grimlok and Goblins. ((monsters
found in-game))

### Pravat Caves

Grimlok Worker
Grimlok Soldier
Grimlok Warrior
Goblin Soldier*
Goblin Warrior*
Draco Hatchling**

\* \-Pre-Deoch 16

\*\* \- The Draco Hatchlings live in the room before the Chaos Pits entrance.
Draco Hatchlings are the children of the Dracos (who live is the Kasmanium
Mines) They are allied with no one, and will attack anyone on sight. But there
is never more then one in the room at a time.

### Eastern Woodlands

(area it starts appearing in)

Kobold* (5-1)
Goblin Guard (7-1)
Goblin Warrior (8-1)
Hob-Goblin** (14-1)

\* \- Kobolds are younger goblins who have not reached adulthood.

\*\* \- Hob-Goblins are not officially Goblins, but are distant cousins of the
Goblins.

### Undine Field

Goblin Warrior (first 2 areas)
Astrid
Kobold Pup*
Kobold
Goblin Guard
Goblin Warrior
Goblin Shaman
Fiend Pupa**
Cruel***
Gargoyle****

\* \- Cousins of the wolfs, these are the pets of the Kobolds

\*\* \- Goblins in Astrid will summon Sgrios creatures for their defense. The
Fiend Pupa is the Goblin Shaman's summon.

\*\*\* \- Goblin Guard Summon

\*\*\*\* \-Goblin Warrior Summon

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Ramanayan_Grimlok.htm .
```
