# Depths of Society

_by Rasputen in **Dark Ages**_

## Introduction

When a mundane ascends to aislinghood their immediate thirst for knowledge is
derived from the fortunes of their own greed. At one point in your life you
must stop and think of what your purpose in Temuair really is. Some may wish to
achieve a heightened sense of socialism, some will seek political domination,
some will wish to be seekers of knowledge, and some shall continue on their
immediate goal of fortune.

## The Path of Learning is Endless

No matter what purpose you uphold in Temuair there will always be higher level.
When you go out hunting to seek insight you only gain the ability to hunt
better and gain more insight. When you start your first political campaign you
learn how to gain clout, be it lawfully or not, how to achieve respect from
those in higher offices, and so forth. When you make friends you learn how to
become a better friend. In the process of completely work for mundane
recognition one must study to perfect their work. No matter what path of
learning you take you will always have a greater goal to achieve.

## Judgment

Every aisling has their own path to take in the cycle of learning, and
henceforth should not be judged by a single aspect of their existence. As
mentioned earlier, a new aisling's immediate ideals are always of fortune, and
thus judge you upon their ideals. When an aisling gains political status he may
look down upon thee, for thou has not gained an equivalent status. However, of
the many ideals, aislings of socialism tend to judge more accurately on your
personality, sparing the conflict of hierarchy in society.

## Societal Layers

Once ideals of fortune begin to fade and involvement sets in an aisling begins
to learn much about Temuair he could never even dream of. An aisling's
perception on society is only what he has known it to be, which can also lead
to false judgment. An aisling can read all he wants, and learn not the reality
of society. When an aisling becomes involved in a guild, political office,
faithful religion, events, teaching, and mundane recognition they gain a
glimpse at something new. When they participate in further acts such as
religious confrontations, court cases, crime, studying in-depth, etc. they then
learn to a further their knowledge on society. The farthest layer reached is
one of time spent, watching as society changes in its own depths.

## Purpose

The idea of my teaching was meant to allow the reader to open their mind to
other opportunities and allow them to see the world in another aisling's eyes,
helping them see the truth of different paths of hierarchy and depth. These
separations of advancement show a great importance in the conflict and
socialism between aislings of Temuair.

![diagram](Rasputen_Society.jpg)

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Rasputen_Society.html .
```
