# Arena Behavior

_by Relg in **Dark Ages**_

I am Relg and I write about the behavior of those in the arena because so many
aislings frequent the battle grounds there and do combat. There are distinct
types of aislings in the arena: the ones who lust for blood and battle any they
see, those who battle only those they dislike, those who stand back and watch,
and those who aid others. Those four types of aislings make up the whole
community of the arena visitors. Let me proceed to enlighten ye about these
four groups of brave aislings.

The most glorious of all is the one who triumphs over his foe and stands in
victory. Ye will find many monks and warriors who have honed there skills so
that they can defeat there opponents in the arena. Many of whom can send an
aisling whimpering in pain with a single deadly kick or a ferocious swing of
their blade. I've stood and watched as a band of monks from the guild Yakuza
challenged all who stood in the arena, merely by being present. They crave the
sensation of defeating their opponent and proclaiming themselves the victor.
Many aislings seek this glory and travel to the arena in hopes to make a name
for themselves by defeating others in combat.

It is not just the monks or warriors who have sought combat though, often ye
will see a rogue who is able to hold his own using the various cunning traps
available to him. Ye can also find wizards who wield the strongest of elemental
magics to do combat with, and those priests who are able to use the power of
light to blast there opponents with.

It's my reasoning that those who fight any all seek glory and a name for
themselves, and this is how they wish to do it, by proving there valor in
combat. It is a great way to earn the respect of others, but it seems it earns
disrespect in the eyes of a few. There are always those who are against this
kind of combat, as they see it as senseless fighting. Also it is true that
there are many disputes that arise on the arena grounds over who is better, and
they are usually settled with a duel. Duels are quite common amongst the
aislings who frequent the arena, as it is a fair way to test one's skills
against another, without worry of another aiding your opponent. This brings us
to another kind of arena aisling, the combatant who fights only those he
dislikes.

We all know arguments arise outside of the arena as well, and some aislings are
disliked by others, often these aislings are remembered, and if seen in the
arena, they will be attacked! This is one way that they may have there final
laugh, and it seems this is as if to say "Ha, see, I am the better one after
all." Many ongoing 'feuds' exist in the arena, and strong feelings arise in the
hatred that can grow between those who constantly do battle with ones they
truly despise.

With all of this going on, there are always fights to watch in the arena, and
there are many who are drawn in simply to watch others. It is quite a spectacle
to view two masters duel it out, and many become inspired by their battles to
become as strong as them! It's my thoughts that the arena itself sparks the
desire and will to become better, and encourages all who visit it to better
themselves and hone there skills more and more so that they may do better.

Finally, there are those who aid others in the arena. Usually this means a
priest to heal injured fighters and to cast sanctuary spells upon them. Then
there are wizards who enhance the elements within others, making the fighters
magically enhanced. Many of those who visit the arena to fight are glad to see
a priest or wizard as they know this means they can receive their aid.

Those are the four main types you will see in the arena and together they form
a balance that causes the arena to strive and remain ever popular. Some of ye
may be thinking this to be more of an explanation, but ye must understand, it
was imperative that I explain these things so you can understand my thoughts
and reasoning. The arena is a source of inspiration for many in my eyes, it's
very existence causes all who visit there or plan to visit to seek out more
strength, this in turn relates to better hunters in Temuair. With these better
hunters, the monsters themselves seek new ways to strengthen themselves so that
they may prevail. The dark ways that empower them serve to bring about new
technology to empower the evil monsters. With this idea in mind we can see how
newer, stronger beasts will arise, ones that will show to be a challenge to
even the strongest group of monsters.

I know this is a little off topic from the arena, but is the arena I believe
that is the foundation for the stronger monsters that will arise. Of course,
new beasts also means new things to find out about them, their origins and
powers and such. Also it seems these creatures often carry new items for us to
obtain and benefit from. It is the arena we have to thank for new strains of
monster types that appear. This is my theory, which also covers a little of the
sociological behavior of those in the arena.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Relg_Arena.html .
```
