# In Depth with the Cthonic Disciple

_By Skar in **Dark Ages**_

The Cthonic Disciple was first heard of when a priest stumbled across the
remains of one. He then took its robes and hood and donned them. The priest
then became the Cthonic Disciple of either Dawn or Decay. Then male wizards
found out they too could don the robes of a lost Cthonic Disciple.

The Cthonic Disciple, referring to the original creature, was a creature that
followed Chadul in most hideous ways. It would make sacrifices according the
moon, and would chant accordingly. These creatures traveled and performed their
rituals in large groups of twenty to fifty. They followed the ways of Chadul
and Sgrios so strictly, that they believed they could awaken Chadul from his
slumber, and reign over Temuair for all eternity.

The Cthonic Disciple took refuge in crypts all over the world. They would
worship and perform their rituals in the Temple of Sgrios, located in the
Dubhaim Castle. They had the ability to control Dubhaim at will, and produce
succubi from thin air. Some believe that the Sgrios Followers of modern times
are decendents of these Cthonic Disciples, whether they are priests or not.

They believed it to be absolutely necessary to exterminate every other living
creature before the awakened Chadul. The Cthonic Disciple thought that he or
she should cleanse the world for their master. Aislings of today can only
barely comprehend the powers of the Cthonic Disciple.

The Cthonic Disciple was strong in all types of learning, especially
literature. Here is an excerpt from an ancient writing of a Cthonic Disciple:

" I met with Dal'ud today. He was speaking as if he had grown old over the
Danaans. I hate the name of this cursed measurement of time, so I will now
refer to collection of moons as Chaduls. A new class of Cthonic Disciple is
coming into being, but it requires intense training of the mind and body, and
can easily destroy any of us at any time. The name of the new class is a
Chadulite, because we refer to ourselves as lesser Chaduls. That is all I have
to say, and I now encase this parchment in a chest, for any future disciple to
find and read "

That excerpt shows that the mind of a Cthonic Disciple was bent on only serving
Chadul, and Chadul alone. Some claim that the insane are descendents of the
Cthonic Disciples.

When a Cthonic Disciple died, they placed the creature's body in a tomb near
the bottom of what was to become the Mileth Crypt. They dug the crypt out for
that use, and put many floors of traps and evil creatures to guard to tombs
well. They placed an enchantment on the tombs, so that only a wizard or priest
of a high insight could access the robes of a lost Cthonic Disciple. Once
accessed at the Mileth Crypt tomb, the wandering priest or wizard would be
transported to a dream world, where he would be told where to go. Depending on
if the day was a day of Luathas or Sgrios, the Aisling would either go to the
crypt in Piet, which means it is a day of Sgrios, or to a room far into the
Dubhaim Castle, which means it is a day of Luathas. Once there, they must
return to the Mileth crypt, where they will gain their well earned robes and
hood, and become a Cthonic Disciple at heart and mind.

The Cthonic Disciple was an odd creature indeed, and there is still much to be
researched on it. The priests and wizards of today, who have become Cthonic
Disciples, show no signs of their ancient ancestors, or at least for the time
being. The Cthonic Disciples that walk Temauir today can actually be kind of
heart and generous, but most are of the Sgrios Fellowship and follow the ways
of Chadul.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Skar_Cthonic.html .
```
