# The Malformed Spark Manifesto

_by Synnovea in **Dark Ages**_

I write this parchment with a hint of fear, fear of the truths that I speak,
and fear of the reactions of my fellow aislings. For some time, we have hidden
from a truth that is so fearsome that we are not even able to address it
properly, but instead push it into the incorrect category of religiously
oriented. We close our eyes, hoping that the truth can be altered by a mass
belief.

My brothers and sisters touched by the spark, it is time we faced the reality
that idea of those who run around speaking gibberish and nonsense are not
heretics. They are not heretics at all.

A heretic is a person who holds controversial opinions, especially one who
publicly dissents from the officially accepted dogma of a realms organized
religion. A true heretic is one who creates a schism, or division in the
church, on points of faith, discipline, practice, etc., usually for the sake of
personal aggrandizement.

What I ask of you to consider is frightening, but I feel that it is necessary
that we begin to open our eyes to the truth of an aislings spirit. When touched
by the spark, we are whisked into a world where every sensation is heightened,
every emotion intensified tenfold. Our minds are riddled with a myriad of
dreams and thoughts that we never thought could exist in our mundane lives. And
sometimes, as terrifying as the thought may be, our spark is twisted by this
process and becomes malformed.

I believe I can say with conviction, that for all of us, this concept is
terrifying. We are gifted with this spark, suddenly able to understand and
physically act in manners we never thought possible as mundanes. And when
confronted with these aislings whose sparks are malformed, our spirits rebel,
desperately hoping to hide from the possibility that our spark might have some
hidden malformed as well. And the majority of us do have a hint of a
malformation - their are few perfect aislings. We see it every day, the far
away look as all go silent, yet the feeling of thoughts fill the air that are
otherworldly and confused (ooc talk) - and we feel it in ourselves as we are
sometimes overwhelmed with these thoughts, yet most dare not speak of it for
fear of our fellow aislings shunning us or turning away in disgust at these
confusing moments.

Of course not every malformity in an aisling spark is the same in size, some
are touched only slightly, the aisling speaking with all appearance of sanity
but they demand that others refer to them by some garbled and confused name
that nearly pulses with the deformity in their otherwise normal sparks. I have
three dear friends of mine that are examples of this sort of insanity and
deformation, for they indeed are exceptional aislings, but their malformity in
the spark appeared that. I wince when I speak their 'name', but out of respect
for them, I choose to not push the issue until they are ready. I've often
thought that I might one day be able to convince them to go with me to the
mundanes, and perhaps seek to repair their spark with their admission, and
their willingness to let this obsession with an insane name end. Perhaps that
day will come, perhaps it won't.

The most common form of this insanity seeps through in the use of slurred,
almost drunken sounding words and sounds - lol, thx, plz - the list goes on and
on, but sadly, it seems to be more prevalent in the younger aislings, as if
somehow the process of being infused with the spark has changed and causing
this common side-effect. More severe cases are those that slip into casual
conversation odd gibberish or words that don't even exist. For several Deoch's
I believed that Korea Lvl 99 was a secret password or language used by spies in
our lands. I later learned that they are a group of malformed spark aislings
that are nomads who live in the outskirts of Temuair, and sometimes in their
confusion, wander in and in their fear and desperation begin to glom on to us,
desperately seeking our help and understanding of their deformed nature. The
most severe cases are the aislings that only occasionally are lucid, and we see
them most often choosing hunting as a method to likely beat out their
frustrations and insane thoughts on the creatures that fill our lands.

With this being said, I ask of you all to open your eyes to this serious
'illness' that afflicts our brethren. Pity them as you would a mundane who was
born without a leg, or with a hump on their back. Their insanity, though
sometimes able to be mended is something we all face from time to time. If we
can direct our thoughts to put aside the fear and be more charitable, pitying
them and guiding them towards making sense of their spark, it might one day
provide the answer to a cure for the malformed spark. When you see them
struggling with their confusion, give them a nod that shows you understand that
they are struggling with insanity, offer your pity and try to explain to them
as you would a child that they are giving in to the malformed area of their
spark which might lead to total insanity.

Ultimately, banishing them is sometimes the answer, when they become intent on
causing confusion in other aislings, which threatens to cause all out delusion
within our ranks, but for the most part, this insanity should be handled with a
gentle touch.

I appeal to you now, let us begin to acknowledge that which we no longer can
deny. Acknowledging the deformities within the fragile spark and the insanity
it sometimes leads to. Let us not confuse it with religion any longer - they
are not heretics, they are the sadly afflicted of aislingkind.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Synnovea_Spark.htm .
```
