# Prospects of Darkness

_by Thissus in **Dark Ages**_

The path of an Aisling seems, on the surface, to be clearly cut and dry. You
either spend your life-energy struggling to push back the darkness or you
embrace it. Yet despite my early enthusiasm along the path which pitted me
against a seemingly unending darkness, I find myself now considering the matter
a touch more deeply. With more than a little regret, I find myself no longer
able to hold on to the na√Øve perspective that drove my former zeal. I am now
caught in a cage of indecision. To turn away from the light is not something
that is done lightly perhaps by even contemplating such a course of action as
that, I already have.

When I awoke and looked upon the world for the first time with the eyes of an
Aisling, I saw truths that had before escaped my notice. I could see,
fleetingly, always at the edge of my vision, the web that connects all things.
I saw in that web power. Elemental power that I could use to push back the
darkness. Since that first awakening, never has there been a doubt anywhere in
my being that I needed to see this web with crystal clarity in order to master
the secrets of the elements. With practice I began to see the
interconnectedness more clearly, but ever was that clarity shrouded in
darkness. That is precisely where it became, and still is, more complicated. It
seems that in order to see that clarity the darkness must be embraced. And yet,
I can not help but to see that my original purpose in seeking that clarity was
to gain the power to push back that very darkness. It seems that the means to
an end has now offered itself to be the end itself. An interesting dilemma is
it not?

Also of concern to me is the fact that Luathas, the God of Knowledge, refuses
to show any sign as to caring whether or not I walk the path of darkness or of
light. This can mean one of two things: Either he truly does not care for the
titanic struggle and only cares for the accumulation of knowledge, which is
after all power; or he chooses to use this as a test of some sorts. I suppose
another possibility is that one mortal life is too insignificant to attract the
attention of a God one way or the other. Truly a humbling thought. Does it even
matter if Luathas supports my journey? After all, my magic comes not directly
from him, like those of the priests. My power comes instead, directly from my
own understanding and manipulation of the elements. Still it would not be at
all prudent to fall out of favor of one with so much power. Again assuming that
the God would even notice my deviance.

Great are the promises of Darkness but as I said earlier, it is no small thing
to turn away from the light. With the light comes serenity so far from anything
possible through the path of darkness that even the dark whispers that creep
into my divided mind dare not offer it. Profound serenity that is not based on
power or material gain but rather on the simple knowledge that your soul is in
the loving hands of the Goddess Danaan. That is something not in the capacity
of darkness to offer-no, the darkness offers much, but never that. Instead
there is an offer of power unimaginable. A power that will then of course be
needed to sustain your own life. For if you decide to tread that dark path, you
must sustain your life eternally- when it ends, your soul falls not into the
comforting hands of eternal peace. No, after a life of darkness there must lie
only torment for the soul enshrouded in that dark element. It is true that I
seek the power that appears to come only through the path of darkness, so much
so in fact that I consider the prospects of turning from the light, even
knowing the price that comes with it. But neither can I deny the strength that
is born from that serenity only possible through the light.

I feel as a man who has left the blessing of light but has not yet gained the
courage to embrace the darkness. A man caught between two paths, a man in a
very dangerous place indeed. Even as I scribe this final piece of this work, a
part of my mind is preparing for my next excursion into the bowls of the
crypts. As of now I still hold as my intent the objective of fighting against
the fiends which seem to come unendingly to that place- but I can not help but
to wonder if the day will come when I journey to those depths with a different,
unholy intent.

Perhaps it is possible that I may find a thin line that exists exactly between
this dichotomy. A line in shadows perhaps, traveling enough through the
darkness to see with clarity the strands of the web of power that permeate
existence, but still feeling the warmth of the light. I pray that I find such a
path even though I know that such a path would be precarious indeed.

May you find your path and be strong enough to follow it fellow Aisling.

_Thissus Gaianon_
_Shadow Walker_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Thissus_Dark.html .
```
