# The Ties That Bind

By Thubub in **Dark Ages**

_A Dissertation on the Relationship Between Ceannlaidir, Deoch, and Sgrios_

## Introduction

The purpose of this text is mainly a philosophical one. I use history and logic
to guide my thinking upon the relationship of the Sgrios trinity, but the
conclusions drawn from the historical facts leap beyond what is "known" to what
"might be so." This should by no means be a conclusion to the subject, but a
stepping stone to understanding the relationship between Sgrios and his allies,
Deoch and Ceannlaidir.


## Historical Ties

_Historical Relationship to Ceannlaidir_

There is surprisingly little written record of Ceannlaidir’s historical
origins. Maerista’s, "Book of the Black Cow," first mentions the possibility
that a warrior named Setanta, might be Ceannlaidir in the Second Aeon, dated at
approximately 10500 Grinneal.

Ceannlaidir and Sgrios are mentioned together in Napie’s, "Shadows of Aosda."
Here Napie describes both gods as crystal entities absorbing power from the
Aosda tradition of gladiatorial games. However, I believe that Napie simply
ascribed his own views on what these crystals might be, rather than having any
historical evidence to support this claim. Further, it is the only time that
any Temuairian Deity is described as a crystal in any text, which casts doubt
on his interpretation of the crystals’ purposes.

Nenya’s, "A Short History of the Eldar," mentions Ceannlaidir in relation to an
ancient god of the wind Ulmo. This writing conveys the idea that Ulmo, an
Earth-Sea god, was considered older than Ceannlaidir in Grinneal 32092. Given
the ancient nature of the Earth-Sea gods, we could conclude that Ceannlaidir is
very ancient, predating many of the gods that are known in Temuair today and
predating the appearance of Danaan.

Ceannlaidir’s origins may be unclear, but we can surmise from these sources
that he is a very ancient god, perhaps the oldest god in the present Temuairian
pantheon. Ceannlaidir certainly predates the appearance of Sgrios in Danaan
1985 (Timeline of Temuair). So what, historically, can be said of Ceannlaidir
and Sgrios.

Ceannlaidir may be an unknowing accomplice in the creation of Sgrios. It is
written in Katrionah’s, "The Bane of Light," that Sgrios was spawn of Chadul in
response to his weakened state arising from the many years of war with Danaan.
The great war between Chadul and Danaan was surely overseen by Ceannlaidir, and
perhaps he may have had some involvement in that war. Additionally, Ceannlaidir
must be aware of the cost in death that his divine purpose has effected. Though
there is scant literature on the subject, it would seem that since the
appearance of Sgrios, Ceannlaidir has maintained a close relationship with the
god of death.

_Historical Relationship to Deoch_

Deoch is a god whose origin remains shrouded in mystery. To date, there are
three conflicting stories that tell the tale of his beginning.

Niall’s, "Legend of Deoch" recounts two of these possibilities. Firstly, from
Seanchas Temuair, the popular version of Deoch’s origin as being a greater
Dubhaimid, spawn of Chadul, and the god of debauchery. But secondly, in the
same account Niall recalls a different version of events where Deoch is
actually a mortal warrior. This warrior and leader performs a dark ritual that
brings eventually leads him to Chadul and results in his divinity. Still a
third version is recounted by Lethalia’s, "Alternate History of Temuair," that
proposes Deoch was actually the part of Chadul that loved Danaan. In this
version, Chadul removes the part of himself that still desired Danaan and
breathes life into the creature. All three stories seem reasonable, but only
one has any historical evidence to back its claim.

Niall includes a first hand eye witness accounts for the events surrounding
one, Enthar Deoch, a troop leader in the Loures Army. These accounts are both
descriptive and authentic to the period in question. The text is quite
compelling, but is there president for it? Certainly, popular accounts of both
Gramail’s and Luathas’ origin is that of a mortal ascending to deification.
Additionally, there is evidence that Sgrios himself was once mortal as well.
Given all the available information to date, this version of Deoch’s origin
seems most compelling. So how does this tie Deoch to Sgrios?

Katrionah’s, "The Bane of Light" describes Srgrios’ ascension as the god of
death and decay as being one from mortal to god. Sgrios comes to Chadul and
makes a deal for his powers of immortality. Both Deoch and Sgrios are connected
historically through Chadul. Additionally, both seem to have been, at some
point, a servant or aid to Chadul.

## Ideological Ties

_Philosophical Relationship to Ceannlaidir_

The relationship between Ceannlaidir and Sgrios is quite straightforward. War
and death are partners in purpose, and even though one purpose does not
necessitate the other. Where there is war, you will find death and destruction.
So the link is a conclusion to the natural order of things. But there is more
to the story.

Sgrios gives Ceannlaidir purpose on the field of battle. Without death, there
can be no real glory having risked a warrior’s life for a great cause. Without
death, there can be no mourning great sacrifice or admiring the courage of a
fallen foe. Without death, war is a ceaseless mundane exercise like cleaning
one’s tunic or feeding the dog.

But also with war, comes great cost. So that with the coming of war, Sgrios’
need and hunger is satiated. Ceannlaidir’s conflicts become Sgrios’ great
bounty. So that Sgrios and Ceannlaidir are connected by purpose, mutual need,
and design.


_Philosophical Relationship to Deoch_

Deoch and Sgrios have much in common based on their shared history. Both born
as mortals drawn by the power of Chadul, they shed their mortality by making a
pact with the dark lord. Moreover, they seem to have moved away from being
simple pawns of the dark one, to following their own will in place of the
desires of Chadul. Both familiar with the Dubhaimid, they seem comfortable with
the darkness and hiding their purposes from the common masses.

Additionally, they are both bound by the Aisling spark. Deoch by his creation
of the spark and Sgrios by his hunger for the spark.

Finally, it may be that Deoch and Sgrios have a heretofore unknown pact.
Perhaps Deoch’s sense of loss for Danaan has moved him to such compassion for
those that might feel the same loss that he instigated the bargain with Sgrios.
In return for Sgrios sending the Aisling to the realm of the living upon death,
perhaps Deoch offered to exchange instead a piece of the Aisling life force to
feed his hunger.


## The Common Thread

An interesting familiarity also exists between Ceannlaidir and Deoch that makes
the Sgrios trinity one of the most interesting within the pantheon of gods.
That link is Danaan. Deoch’s great love for Danaan is legendary, but many
forget the link between Ceannlaidir and Danaan’s daughter, Glioca. Ceannlaidir
fathered Cail by Glioca through deceit, but he went to great lengths to both
seduce her and then punish her rejection through their son, Cail. Perhaps both
Deoch and Ceannlaidir have learned something about love and love lost that
draws them to Sgrios and the finality of death.


## Summary

I hope that this text has served to better the understanding of Sgrios and the
trinity. Perhaps it will inspire deeper thought about the gods and the will of
Sgrios. And as always...

_Bibliography_

[Maerista, "The Book of the Black Cow"](../History/Maerista-The-Book-of-the-Black-Cow.md)
[Napie, "Shadows of Aosda"](../History/Napie-Shadows-of-Aosda.md)
[Nenya, "A Short History of the Eldar"](../History/Nenya-A-Short-History-Of-The-Eldar.md)
[Timeline of Temuair](../History/Extant/Timeline.md)
[Katrionah, "The Bane of Light](../History/Katrionah-The-Bane-Of-Light.md)
[Niall, "Legend of Deoch"](../History/Niall-The-Legend-of-Deoch.md)
[Lethalia, "Alternate History of Temuair"](../History/Lethalia-Alternate-History-Of-Temuair.md)
[Dryst, "Historical Legends: The Birth of Cail"](../History/Dryst-Historic-Legends-The-Birth-Of-Cail.md)

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document was lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```


