# A Treatise on Leadership

_by Topic in **Dark Ages**_

The kings were given power from their fathers before them, and like the mighty
gods, power was bestowed upon them by birthright. We, the mere Aislings whom
roam the lands of Ardmagh, were not given such authority at the instance of our
awakening. We cannot claim more than our own name and the shirts on our backs
when our sparks alight. It is after our first steps when we look outside of the
dusty rooms we once knew as mundanes when we start to develop our own sense of
self. Here, we find the world can be foreign or familiar to us depending on how
lucid our dreaming mundane otherselves used to be. We venture out from the
moment of Deoch's grace, and what we eventually take shelter in is the future
of our own design.

> _"...Whether we know or not, we leave a mark on this world. Wherever we go, we make
> an impact on another life. Whether by taking pain with us to the other side,
> or by simply smiling when a fellow aisling is down. Never feel your impact is small,
> your simply being alive changes this world. Do not be sad if you feel you haven't
> done 'enough'. You have, and you will continue to from above when you watch
> over this world. After all, the sun will always set, and rise again to start anew..."_
>   
> _\- Cedrik, "Impact"_

It would be a shame to be trite and say that the world is what you make of it,
however that is the case. Some folks know inherently how to speak to others,
and other aislings know how things function without a hitch. We are all
different with our own particular gifts which will impact what happens to us
over a set period of time.

We can describe traits as whatever comes easiest to us, but could you also
consider leadership a natural born gift? Furthermore, if we can solidly define
what a leader is, then what becomes of this newly acquired knowledge? Like many
other methodologies, identification is only the first step in a process to
better understand the subject matter. We must then create some positive
utilization of the new concept.

So bearing the topic of leadership in mind, we might ask ourselves the most
basic of questions: where do leaders come from, what do leaders do, and can I
become a better leader?

## The Origin of a Leader

When we think of the word "leader", our minds conjure up images of heroes
saving damsels. We probably picture dashing, confident aislings with adoring
fans and a very proud mother. Many might imagine their religion's clergy, or
the aisling who once lead them down their class's path. Some might see the
fabulously wealthy aislings with money to back up his or her will. Others might
think of the strongest among us. So which trait exactly are we looking for in a
leader? Confidence, charisma, faith, wisdom, strength, wealth?

Many would argue that there is a particular trait for leadership, and that is
intertwined so deeply into an aisling that they cannot help but be a leader.
Simply put, this would mean that leaders are born to play their roles in life,
and would naturally rebel from following at every turn due to their very
nature. Conversely, it would have to mean that followers would not have the
capacity to lead, and they must remain in a following role.

The notion concerning the existence of a "leadership trait" has been the
leading mindset for a very long time. This perspective explains why mundane
royalty only weds other royalty. These governing groups of supposedly superior
beings jealously covet the heretical trait of leadership in order to ensure
that their kingdoms will be in safe hands after they have gone, and ensure that
their descendants are not left in mutinous hands of upstarts when they have
gone the way of the unicorns.

This might seem plausible; however, we have all known of instances when the
quiet, meek sort of people speak out and are surprisingly well suited for more
than just a passive role. Take for example the uprisings in the seemingly tame
town of Undine. First the Empress then the King of Loures were threatened and
nearly overwhelmed by the organization and leadership of the mundanes during
times of distress.

The first instance, according to the
"[History of Undine](../History/Cliona-History-of-Undine.md)" as told by the
aisling Cliona, around 2991 in the time of Danaan, mundanes and aislings were
being driven from their homes in Undine in order to seek reprieve from the
decrees of their new ruler, the Empress of Loures. Soon thereafter, some move
back to their abandoned town and united and prospered despite the mandated
stipulations to subdue the ornery population. This was the origin of monks. The
rebellion was silent because they never truly battled the soldiers of Loures
due to a terrible plague which swept over the lands which devastated both
societies.

The much more recent second uprising was attended to by King Bruce with a much
heavier hand. The priest Peppin recounts the atrocious outcomes of the Undinian
uprising in
[Astrid - The Children of Undine](../History/Peppin-Astrid-The-Kidnapped-Children-Of-Undine.md)
(available at the library of Loures). To become enough of a force as to
threaten the king of Loures is no small feat. Purpose, drive, and organization:
they are all products of leadership. And yet again, it was the mere folk of
Undine collectively rising up against their suppressive masters without having
a drop of that precious royal blood.

> _"... 'Twixt land and sea lies Fair Undine  
> Sweet innocent homeland of mine.  
> Heed me aislings, listen well!  
> This will end right here and now!  
> Loures will fall and Undine's pride,  
> Shall be known both far and wide!  
> Today we shall make history!  
> Lift your sword and fight with me!  
> Bring our wrath  
> On unsuspecting Loures,  
> Let Undine's freedom ring!... "_  
>   
> _\-Zirilian, "Fair Undine"_

Maintaining that the above examples of mundanes without the inherited
"leadership trait" thinking autonomously are true, we can conclude that leaders
and leadership must both be developed like a painting upon a canvas. Applied
with a basic study of lore which will tell us that nothing will happen
spontaneously, I submit to you the idea that while the actions of individuals
determine whether or not they will lead, the inspiration and methodology comes
from somewhere else. Potential or current leaders originally learn the art of
leadership through interactions with a more experienced aisling or an
environment provided by several. For example, as second nature as walloping,
kicking, hiding, casting ioc, or casting fas nadur is for some, we did not
automatically come into being with knowledge of these skills and secrets. We
ventured out, and, seeing that our assailing mice with sticks did not quite
satisfy our visions of the future, we went in search for a mentor. However, as
Feena describes in "[Will You Guide Me?](../Lore/Feena-Will-You-Guide-Me.md)",
mentoring is more than just the occasional check in to see if everything is
going fine. With continued interactions with a pseudo authority figure,
behaviors change to mimic the more experienced individual, and the transfer of
knowledge usually turns out for the better.

## The Path of a Leader

Though mentoring at the best of times is a constant, steady hand to hold, it
also comes in different forms. As Keallach, the fight master of Mileth, taught
young sparks the martial arts, a starving wolf taught a young mundane the
beauty of humble generosity at the Sapphire Stream (Cliona, "History of
Undine"). Less palpably, where some may not have had the luxury of the iconic
mentor for in various areas of interest, it is possible many sparks might have
filled that void in small ways. How one phrases a law, how one handles a
charging Shinewood mantis, how one defends your guild's castle. Methods in one
or many arenas of life could have been influenced by a single Aisling
inadvertently.

Private lessons taken to heart and offhanded collections of wisdoms are
continuously combined into the very being of one's spark. And obviously,
lessons learned cannot make anyone instantly handsome, spontaneously
intelligent, or immediately charismatic. No traits will change due to the
processes of direct or passive mentorship. We can only ever see a gradual
influence on aislings through their long-term changes in behaviors.

Behaviors are where we can categorize kindness and cruelty, modesty and
narcissism, leadership and followership. Behaviors are the key! Finally, we are
not mere slaves to a natural fact determined by blood! We can be dynamic, and
we can actually move to take on roles like actors to Garamonde Stage. Again, we
can think about our meek friend who one day stands up and speaks his or her
mind, perhaps he or she even brought others on to his or her cause. How else
could the immediate change in demeanor happen if it were not possible for
followers to choose to lead? There can be any number of reasons for a follower
to change roles, but which sorts of behaviors make for the most affective
leadership?

What we can conclude is that leadership is a result from behaviors developed
over time through mentoring. We must know ourselves and about the world beyond
our relatively narrow lines of sight, but then what? Exploring the broad
concept of mentoring again, there is a crucial element necessary even for the
very worst sort of leadership. Between the mentor and mentee there is
interaction, an exchange. Just as if we were teaching the rest of our
organization a new skill or world secret, we must communicate. Being an active
communicator enables the group to know where they are and where they are going
within that world. A leader is foremost a communicator.

## The Role of a Leader

Consider what you would want to see in a potential guild leader, arena host, or
high ranking official. These people must be capable of handling problems as
they surface, and keep the group around them engaged. We expect leaders to do
more than clear the way for their followers, leaders must also excite their
organizations enough to go further. Yes, they communicate, but what exactly
needs to be said?

For organizations to grow or maintain performance, the members must know what
the organization is trying to do. Just like we should all form a sense of our
personal identity, groups and teams must do the same thing. Leaders should
communicate the vision of a group, and appraising where the organization is
along that vision, they should update their members. A vision is a long-term
goal which is inspiring and yet, attainable. Some guilds have used visions,
even if they were not expressed to their members outright.

Furthermore, communication is not purely one directional. Aislings with less
clout in the organization are the foundation of the organization. Without these
aislings, then the group would not be powerful. Not only to appease these folk
enough to maintain good morale, leaders should listen to the less powerful
tiers of their organizations because they understand how things work from the
bottom up. Who else knows the fight but the brawlers in the arena? Who else
knows the criminal climate than the guards? The lowest levels understand the
gritty reality instead of purely a vision which sometimes becomes lost in
delusions of grandeur.

At the end of the sun, communicating to and for aislings is the duty of a
leader. They are not so much only to be held above the masses with pomp and
circumstance, instead they must perform to ensure that the aislings below them
know what to do and that their work goes smoothly. In my experience in Mileth
politics for example, guard captains and judges would take time to answer
questions about laws to their younger, less experienced guards. These kind
sparks would take time and energy, despite being of superior rank, to ensure
that the process of learning the ropes went smoothly.

The classic military system of leadership organization appears much like a
triangle with a flat bottom. The bottom of this triangle is comprised of many
"positions" for the lowest levels of the organization, and the top apex
represents a sole "position" for the leader. In advocacy of affective
leadership, I am proposing a completely different way of conceptualizing the
old paradigm. Aislings that would normally be on the bottom of the power
pyramid should be at the top because they are only responsible for their own
work. Middle management follows underneath those aislings because middle
management is responsible to enabling the productivity of the beginning-level
aisling. At the bottom, finally, is the organization's leader. He or she is
responsible that the entire entity moves forward. With this representation of a
team, we do not think of a king upon a hill, we imagine a sort of servant
leader.

Those who have served as guild leaders probably have a stronger insight on
this. Guild leaders and council can relate to the push and pull from members in
every which direction. In the arena, hosts are near constantly bombarded with
requests for matches. With law affairs Knights, Rangers, and Luathas only knows
how much the Mundanes must endure! Leadership roles should not be applied to
for the prestige, but instead they should be taken on because of the sense of
duty.

> _"...I have succeeded in my own true quest  
> I have honor and respect and am loved by the rest  
> But I will not stop there; I'll continue to fight  
> Protecting Temuair each day and night..."_  
>   
> _\- LadyKyra, "A Temuairian Warrior"_

So what, then? We have explored mentoring and its effects on behaviors. We
understand that leadership and followership are behaviors which we switch
between depending on the situation, and we know that leaders are communicators
of many things. What can we do with this? Hopefully, with an understanding of
this knowledge, we can develop into leaders ourselves. And as I close in the
spirit of growing, I offer a few suggestions to improve leadership to my fellow
aislings and curious mundanes:

* Communicate with others. Without communication a group is a hodgepodge of
  individuals unified by name only.

* Always try to learn more about your business. Things change, and a great
  organization is flexible.

* Eliminate needless barriers for others if it is within your power to do.

* Give other aisling's opinions weight. For followers, this gives them
  ownership in decisions, and they are invested.

* Do not avoid diversity. Occasionally move outside of your comfort zone, and
  talk to others whom you do not know. Just be careful to consider their
  background. Because without some common understanding, you might not see eye
  to eye.

Citations

[Cedrik - poetry - "Impact"](../Literature/Cedrik-Impact.md)  
[Cliona - history - "History of Undine"](../History/Cliona-History-of-Undine.md)  
[Feena - lore - "Will You Guide Me?"](../Lore/Feena-Will-You-Guide-Me.md)  
[LadyKyra - poetry - "A Temuairian Warrior"](../Literature/LadyKyra-A-Temuairan-Warrior)  
[Peppin - history - "Astrid - The Children of Undine"](../History/Peppin/Peppin-Astrid-The-Kidnapped-Children-Of-Undine.md)  
[Zirilian - poetry - "Fair Undine"](../Literature/Zirilian-Fair-Undine.md)  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://milethlibrary.weebly.com/leadership-treatise.html .
```

