# The Philosophy of Priesthood

_by Valvalis in **Dark Ages**_

## Sign of the Times

The history and theology of the Gods of Temuair have been well documented by
many scholars of religious inclination. As such, this is neither a theology
essay nor a redundant history lesson--It is a comprehensive discourse on the
distinctions between the path of Priesthood and the services to a religious
fellowship. An examination of the Philosophy of Priesthood in both contexts.
There was a time, to be sure, when those who held the title of "Priest" in each
separate fellowship were characterized by their devotion to the philosophical
concepts and ways of life represented by their God or Goddess of worship.
During these times, which most likely ended simultaneously with the Age of
Atavism, there may or may not have been a distinction between the path of
Priesthood and the service to a fellowship that invariably followed. The
concern of this discourse is the distinction that slowly but surely arose after
Atavism. At the time of this writing, which is the primrose autumn of Deoch 31,
the state of affairs involving the entire demographic of Priests in Temuair is
simply staggering. Those who would be so inclined as to study the Priesthood
now and today, more often than not look to meticulously documented Lore that
outlines the pragmatic skills of a Priest in the context of a healer, and a
member of a hunting party. This is not to say that the ways of the Gods have
become esoteric. The simple fact is that, in a semantic and psychologically
associative way, the term "Priest" has lost a singular meaning. There are now
two distinct meanings. The purpose of this essay is to outline what those
meanings are, to compare and contrast them, and to enlighten those seeking
Priesthood concerning how to approach their path as well as their religion.


## The Path of the Priest

In these times, the most common usage of the term "Priest" refers to the
Priest's craft, or more clearly, the study of healing magics and protection
spells. Whatever their level of theological awareness may be, you will find
with solidarity that those who take up the Priest's craft do so out of a few
basic emotions and desires which lie in a general category of motivation. The
desire to protect one's self. The desire to protect those around you. An
interest in magic and mysticism. A general distaste for physical combat.
Regardless of intentions relating to Priesthood in the context of a religious
fellowship, you will find the Path of the Priest being followed by these types
of Aislings. Once achieved, the Priest's craft opens up a whole new world of
options to the young Aisling.

## Mind Over Matter

There is no mystery as to how one becomes an experienced hunter in the burgundy
autumn of the 31st Deoch. The massive amount of Lore and knowledge that has
been accumulated by the population of Temuair with regard to hunting and combat
is incredible. It is now common for a Priest to be a master of their craft, and
even more common to have mastered the arcane magicks of Wizardry along with it.
Such contradictions in lifestyle that would have been thought absurd in the
early Deochs after Atavism are now a reality. A Priest, once inherently though
implicitly characterized by the propensity to assuage rather than dominate, has
now become just another way of attaining hunting prowess. Those once thought of
as selfless, are now disturbingly selfish. There are many exceptions to this
disheartening standard. Amidst the turmoil, there are still those who value the
oaths of the Priest's craft, or yearn for the religious priesthood. This is not
to say that the "religious Priest" is superior to the "hunting Priest".
However, the Priest who holds true to his or her identity, as well as the oath
to the craft, is righteous in that he or she is indeed a "Priest", and not a
means to an end. One who wishes for the ability to chant the anathema "ard
cradh" with proficiency, and nothing else, has betrayed the tradition of
Priesthood. The Priest craft, and the philosophy that one lives by as a Priest,
must remain pure if the Path is to be what it was meant for in the first place.
The institution of Priesthood in the context of a religious fellowship must
return to the way it was meant to be. This can only be accomplished by a change
in philosophy by the majority of the population. Your beliefs must guide your
actions. If one's heart is true and intentions are honest, the Priesthood shall
greet you with a kind warmth. How each Aisling chooses to live their lives as a
Priest from this point on depends on a number of things. Invariably, the next
step for the Priest will be choosing a religious fellowship to join. This
choice should be guided by fate, and not made on a whim. You must follow your
heart.

## The Point of Digression

The transition from Priesthood to being a Priest in the service of a religious
fellowship is the time when, idealistically, the two distinct semantic
references to the title of "Priest" become differentiated. From this point on,
there are common philosophies that all religious Priests should abide by, but
of course there are huge differences in ideology between the individual
fellowships. One who devotes his or her life to the service in a fellowship
should whole-heartedly believe in these common philosophies as well as the
specific values of the fellowship that he or she has chosen. The following
sections can be used as an overview and a guide to understanding these
universal philosophies as well as the starkly different ways of life that
proceed initiation as a Priest in one of the eight unique fellowships in
Temuair.

## The Philosophy of Priesthood

All Priests should abide by the universal ideals that both identify and qualify
one as a Priest. No matter which God you worship, these philosophies will
apply. For instance, all Priests must show a sincere and unconditional devotion
to their God, as well as support and approval for the allied Gods. The nature
of prayer and the giving of thanks should be incessant and performed with zeal.
Your faith as a Priest must be of the highest order, and as such, the constant
giving of thanks is necessary. The desecration of enemy items is also a strong
way to bolster faith for all Priests, and should be done with fervor. The
choice to say mass is the personal prerogative of every Priest, but it is
strongly recommended as a way of spreading your God or Goddess' message to
others. Supplications and Entreaties are also a must for every Priest, as it is
their duty to act as a vessel through which the divine can bequeath their
miracles and consecrations unto the Aislings who beseech them for assistance.
Another duty of every Priest is to perform competent and comprehensive
initiations for potential worshippers. This is a point whereupon much
corruption has evolved over the years. Far too many Priests perform initiations
without sufficiently assuring that the Aisling in question is suitable to be a
worshipper of that particular God or Goddess, or in some extreme cases perform
initiations for selfish or even illegal reasons. The source of this problem is
lack of education or spiritual corruption. A Priest who is true to the path and
their fellowship has no need for fear. Another example of a Priestly duty that
has become abused over the years is the responsibility to give sufficient and
affirming geasea to the worshippers. Nowadays, this is often done to bolster
experience for friends and acquaintances, in direct violation of the Priest's
oath. The purpose of a geas is to affirm the faith of the candidate. It should
provide them with a reasonable challenge, and one that will act as a rite of
passage into a deeper understanding of their faith. This entire affair should
be a thought-provoking experience for the Priest and the candidate. Aside from
specific ritualistic duties, all Priests must live in such a way that their day
to day actions reflect upon their individual faith. This is the essence of what
it means to serve a God or Goddess. Now we shall examine each particular faith,
and explore what it is that sets them apart from the others in philosophy. Once
again, keep in mind that this is a discourse on the ideal philosophies of
Priesthood in these fellowships, and certainly not a description of the current
state of affairs. This is a guide for the future.

## The Goddess of Compassion

The Temple of Glioca lies at the entrance to Mileth, thus making it by far the
most popular fellowship in the entire world. Gliocan philosophy is unique among
the fellowships, in that Glioca herself knows no hate--not even towards her
official enemies, Gramail and Ceannlaidir. One can observe the elements of this
enmity in the doctrine, all the same. In contrast to Gramail's strict and rigid
antipathy towards law breakers, Glioca calls for compassion and forgiveness.
Where Ceannlaidir would take pleasure in war and conflict, Glioca would
engender peace and mitigation. With this in mind, the duties of a Gliocan
Priest are rather straightforward albeit difficult. A Gliocan Priest must
strive to exercise tolerance, and use their wisdom to decide when punitive
action is called for. For example, what could possibly be grounds for
excommunication from the fellowship that supposedly shows compassion to all?
This is the double-edged nature of Gliocan Priesthood. One must keep the peace,
so as to show compassion for the members of the fellowship, however compassion
must also be shown to those accused of wrongdoing. Thankfully, wisdom is the
characteristic that Gliocan Priests value the most; they should make use of
this wisdom profusely. Mere worshippers of Glioca swear a solemn oath to live
their lives by showing compassion and forgiveness to all; as a Priest of the
Goddess, one must go above and beyond the normal standards, setting a shining
example to all. It is rather simple in theory, yet complicated in practice. A
Gliocan Priest needs not be a weak-spirited pushover when conflict arises, yet
should use their wisdom to assuage situations instead of using force.
Temperament is essential. The Priests of Glioca should be gentle and suave,
like the graceful swan. The application of these simple philosophies to any
situation makes the life of a Gliocan Priest a constant challenge, yet no
mystery to anyone. Their duty is clear; compassion must be shown to all. In the
face of iniquity, tact shall be superior to intimidation. Emphasize the hope
that one's own good example may touch even a heart of stone. The virtues of a
Gliocan Priest include kindness, generosity, humility, piety, temperance and
trust.

## The God of Divine Knowledge

Luathas is the God of gnosis, or divine knowledge, and is worshipped at his
temple in Rucesion, the densely populated center of contemporary thought.
Although the once sparse capital for Wizardry has now become a hive for
merchant guilds and stray Rogues, the nostalgic streetlights still remind us of
the history, and perhaps whisper of the omniscient spirit that still lives
there. As a Priest of Luathas, one's main purpose is to nurture the desire and
search for knowledge and arcane lore among the worshippers of the fellowship,
and to guide those who have lost their way or seek meaning in their lives. The
Luathas Priest should always be ready and willing to provide a light to the
blind. As intelligence is a strong quality of these Priests, to the degree that
one may not even enter the temple of Luathas without sufficient intelligence,
it is common for Luathas fellowship initiations to involve rigorous tests of
knowledge. Similarly, the geas process should emphasize knowledge over all.
However, this is not done to the point where membership becomes strictly elite.
After all, those who are seeking religion to add meaning to their lives are the
very Aislings that the Priest of Luathas is sworn to assist. In comparison to
other fellowships, Luathas Priests might seem strict in their requirements for
certain rituals, however they are also completely devoted to spreading the
gnosis of Luathas. They require effort, yet will not turn a blind eye to those
in need. This is the way of a true Luathas Priest. In times of confusion,
knowledge will bring understanding. Enlightenment can reach any Aisling who has
the education and guidance toward attaining the divine knowledge. The
lineaments of a Luathas Priest include patience, thirst for truth, respect for
knowledge, self-control, helpfulness and sincerity.

## The God of Wealth

The temple of Fiosachd is the second most popular fellowship in Temuair, most
likely because it is the second closest temple to Mileth. An extremely brief
history is useful here. Less than a decade after Atavism ended, the fear of
Sgrios summonings that had spread throughout the land had diminished, and a new
plague reared its ugly head in its place--heresy. This was a foe that nobody
could vanquish no matter how sharp the sword or powerful the spell. Due to an
uncouth guild of heretics and murders that waged war upon the whole of Temuair,
the fellowship of Fiosachd suffered some very undeserved peril. These events
came to bring about an incorrect representation of Fiosachd-- Mislabeling him
as the "God of Greed". In addition to this, many Aislings who are turned away
from the Gliocan temple as a result of heresy or wrongdoing make their way to
the temple of Fiosachd. In this way, there is a great responsibility for the
good Fiosachd Priest in dealing with corruption and spreading the true
philosophy of their God. Fiosachd is the God of wealth, swiftness, luck,
treasure and stealth--Not greed. The true Priest of Fiosachd is not at all
greedy. On the contrary, they are generous. The wealth that is gathered by the
worshippers of Fiosachd was meant to support all of his devout worshippers, not
to be hoarded by stingy and miserly Aislings. It is not a mean-spirited
philosophy of personal gain with disregard for all others, but a universal
desire for the monetary well-being of the fellowship. The Fiosachd Priest must
not simply hoard money, but ensure the prosperity of his worshippers. In the
31st Deoch, there is much greed in the land, and it is does not only exist in
Fiosachd's fellowship--It exists everywhere. Thus, it is essential for the
righteous Fiosachd Priest to right these wrongs to the best of his or her
ability. Set an example that will be respected. Teach your worshippers the
importance of communal well-being as well as personal gain. The swiftness and
good luck of Fiosachd shall serve you well in your quest, as you push to move
beyond the associations that history has connected to this fellowship. The
traits of a Fiosachd Priest include ambition, zeal, generosity and loyalty.

## The God of War

The fellowship of Ceannlaidir is slightly unique upon examination of its
members. Since the nature of the faith involves war and conflict, you will find
that most of the worshippers are Warriors or those very interested in combat.
The Priest of Ceannlaidir is relatively rare, especially those who are
sincerely interested in the philosophy and spirituality. Being an enemy to
Glioca and Luathas, Ceannlaidir has no room for compassion or careful thought,
as he is more concerned with warfare and battle glory. This notion of glory is
what sets the true Ceannlaidir Priest apart from the others. Although the glory
of battle and victory does often result in many deaths, Ceannlaidir is not a
God of death--He is not at all identical to his ally Sgrios. Keeping this in
mind, the ideal philosophies of a Ceannlaidir Priest involve maintaining this
glory and fiery passion for battle amongst the worshippers. One should provide
guidance to those seeking faith, ignite the morale of the Warriors who worship
devoutly, and bestow the miracles of Ceannlaidir upon those going off to deadly
combat, for power and protection. The Ceannlaidir Priest needs not be
completely intolerant to compassion and knowledge, as no Aisling can truly be
devoid of such characteristics. However, these are traits that must be kept in
check, lest they diminish the conquering spirit of the God of War. As a Priest,
it will be your duty to keep the worshippers living in this spirit. Maintain
the glory and intensity of Ceannlaidir at all times in your fellowship, not
allowing for deviation. The characteristics of a Ceannlaidir Priest include
honor, glory, ambition, propensity towards combat, desire for domination,
passion and intensity.

## The God of Nature

Cail, who was sprung from a union between Glioca and Ceannlaidir, is said to be
a fortuitous God. He watches over the balance of nature. The worshippers of
Cail are very pious, consisting mostly of Monks, who spend their entire lives
seeking such a balance. An important theological aspect of this religion is the
enmity with Sgrios. Death and decay represent the polar opposite of the growth
and life that Cail represents. The duties of a Cail Priest are to maintain the
balance, be at one with nature, cultivate peacefulness, and divulge these
philosophies onto the worshippers. The peace and tranquility of the temple of
Cail should be protected at all times. A great benevolence must lie in the soul
of a Cail Priest, and they must set an example of peace to all, like a white
dove flying above in the sky. In comparison to his ally Glioca, Cail also has a
strong propensity towards harmony and altruism. However, the principle
difference here is that the Cail fellowship should not be as apt to extreme
tolerance. The sanctity of the temple grounds must not be defiled, and only the
most devout and pious worshippers may call themselves true followers of Cail.
The Priest of Cail has a duty to ensure that these characteristics are present
in all those who might be initiated. The inner peace and the balance of nature
must be maintained. The spirit of life and all of its beauty will be yours to
spread. Guide your worshippers well, and show them the true path. The virtues
of a Cail Priest include humility, piety, warmth, kindness, temperance,
peacefulness and tranquility.

## The God of Law

In these times of turmoil, Priests of Gramail have their work cut out for them.
Crime and lawbreaking exist in extreme abundance. It is crystal clear as to
just why Glioca is the enemy of Gramail--There is no room for compassion when
dealing with such judgments and the punishments that follow. This is not to say
that a Priest of Gramail should be an unreasonable tyrant. When attempting to
keep law and order, one should be fair, unbiased, and seek true justice. This
is another simple philosophy that becomes complicated in practice, and again
the use of wisdom and good judgment is necessary. These times of trouble
perhaps call for a very strict Gramail Priest, unmoved by pretentious excuses
from criminals who assail them for seeking justice. Tact and cleverness should
be used when dealing with such delicate issues. In times of doubt, where Glioca
would show compassion and forgiveness, a Gramail Priest may be more cautious
and suspicious. Such ways of thinking are necessary to combat the threat of
crime and injustice. The priority here is order, and justice. The Gramail
Priest must firmly believe that a greater good will come to the world by
enforcing these rigid rules. One must be strong-willed, bold and intrepid. Keep
your worshippers in line with a firm but fair hand. Do not lose sight of what
is righteous, and pursue justice by all means necessary. The lineaments of a
Gramail Priest include leadership, righteousness, justice, order, courage,
integrity and dignity.

## The God of Death

Sgrios. Forgive me for mentioning that name. He is said to be an abomination
and a plague to Aislings, who feeds on their souls when they are in mortal
danger. The God of destruction, death and decay. What type of Aisling would
worship such a God? The answer has changed so much over the years. In the days
of old, the fellowship of Sgrios fell under the influence of the witch,
Avilion. The screams of the dying could be heard everywhere as the horrific
Succubus summonings wreaked havoc upon Temuair. In those days, many Aislings
recognized this power, and flocked to serve under the infamous witch. Less than
a decade after Atavism had subsided, the Gods grew tired of these goings on,
and stripped the summoning power away from Avilion and her followers. The witch
disappeared forever, and the fellowship of Sgrios was changed permanently. The
state of the fellowship today has grown very pure. Those who serve their master
devoutly do so even without the ability to cause mass destruction. The temple
of Sgrios has grown into a place where philosophy is of the utmost importance.
Death is not limited to murder. Death comes naturally to us all, and we cannot
avoid it--It is part of life. All forms of life eventually decay and return to
the earth from whence they came. The Priest of Sgrios is interested in
assisting this process on many levels. This is not confined to the intentional
taking of an Aisling life; Sgrios worshippers are not mindless murderers. They
respect death and decay as the natural end of all life, for which it is
destined to arrive at. The Sgrios Priest needs not be evil, nor ill-mannered,
nor even aggressive. It is a matter of philosophy and beliefs. As a Priest of
the God of Decay, one must of course ensure that the fellowship remains of this
purity of belief. Perhaps the most serious issue in the duties of the Sgrios
Priest is to ensure that initiates into the fellowship are indeed true
worshippers of Sgrios, and not confused about the purpose of the faith. As
such, one must keep an endless vigilance. Let the worshippers decide for
themselves as to just how they wish to act upon the whims of their master, but
ensure that their hearts are in the right place, and that their minds are true
to the Sgrios faith. The traits of a Sgrios priest include dignity, intensity,
loyalty and zeal; often zeal towards facilitating destruction.

## The God of Inspiration

Deoch created the first Aisling in the fall after Danaan's sacrifice, to carry
on her work. A former dubhaimid God of debauchery, he is now the God of
inspiration of whom we name our calendar periods after. Since Deoch's faith
involves the inspiration and spark inside of every Aisling, the faith can be
interpreted in many ways. The one universal certainty is that the worship of
Deoch is indeed the worship of all things grand and wonderful about
Aislinghood. Some have called Deoch the patron God of art and creativity. The
specific context matters not--Deoch represents our spark and inspiration
directed towards any purpose. To be a Priest of Deoch is simply to nurture
these beliefs, and guide the worshippers in your congregation as to how they
can utilize and cultivate their divine inspiration. The holy mass rituals and
geasea of the Deoch fellowship should stand out from all religions as being
especially meaningful. Since the mass and the geas are a public display of
faith, and a ritual involving the application of inspiration and creativity,
these are extremely relevant to the Deoch fellowship. In addition to this, as
with any fellowship, a Priest of Deoch should ensure that possible initiates
are true worshippers of the God of inspiration, and have sincere gratitude for
the spark they have been given--Not to mention the willingness to use it. The
temple of Deoch lies far to the west, in Suomi, and therefore does not
currently have a large problem with rampant corruption or legions of
unqualified applicants. As a Priest of Deoch, you must find a balance in this.
Seek to spread the inspiration of Deoch to other Aislings far off that have not
the endurance or willpower to walk to Suomi, yet take heed as to not draw in
those who do not have a pure spirit. It is a blessing and a curse that the
Deoch fellowship is a small one. Take heart in the positive side, and be
optimistic. Do your best to keep the faith alive, for the spark of Deoch is the
most valuable thing that any of us possess. The characteristics of a Deoch
Priest include creativity, enthusiasm, passion, aspiration and devotion.

## Conclusion

There is more to being a "Priest" than hunting. Moreover, there is more to
being a religious Priest than removing scars, conjuring beothaich deums, and
summoning creatures. The institution of Priesthood was once a sacred bond
between an Aisling and their God, and to some degree this has degenerated over
the years. It is not all-encompassing, and certainly not beyond hope. Setting
a good example for those who are uneducated or apathetic to these ways can do
a world of good. Hopefully, the guidelines and ideologies illustrated in this
document will be of some use in this movement. Perhaps we cannot go back, but
we can move forward. The state of affairs in all religious fellowships in
Temuair depends entirely on the integrity of the Priests. If the Priests do
their job, the worshippers will follow. It is in your hands to change the
world. May the Gods bless you, and watch over you.

__Valhalla Valis__  
__High Priestess of Glioca__  

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original copy of this document has been lost. It has been reconstructed from fragments.
```

