## The Development & Mannerisms of the Greater Temuairan Insects

_By Velious in **Dark Ages**_


The insects of Temuair have often become the topic of many Aislings, mostly
hunters, which brings to focus the greater breeds of insects that inhabit the
numerous forests, streams, and caverns of our landscape. Many Aislings stumble
upon their first Mantis or Centipede at a very young age, and either quickly
learn how best to stomp them, or run in fear from the more fierce variety. The
following studies have been conducted so that one may find their next picnic in
the woods a more tolerable one.

First of all, where do such creatures come from? Many think of monsters and
beasts to be enemies of higher intelligence and physical make-up, like a
Goblin, or Wolf for example. Such 'Evolved' creatures are born from parents,
live in rudimentary communities, and communicate with one another, much like
Aislings and Mundanes. The insects, while for the most part communal, lack
distinguishable personality or sentience, nor do they possess any parental care
for their young. An infant insect, for lack of a better term, until our
Mundanes research them further, it grown inside of an egg, where upon it
hatches, and seems to live out its live instinctively, foraging for food and
the like. It will mature - the time it takes is different for all species of
insect - and reproduce to continue its blood-line. After asking Dar, Mileth's
Resident Wizard about the events of an insects life after that, it was
discovered that most insects perish shortly after reproduction.

I thought that that was quite interesting...Dar thought it was humorous.

Next, we will discuss the differentt types of insects, and lastly, what you can
do to defend yourself against the occasional angry wasp, or hungry mantis.
Please try to remain still if ye see an insect, and always treat one as a
potential threat. NEVER, mind ye, pick a fight with one unless ye are a trained
fighter, as some wounds are hard for a priest to heal.

This is a list of sorts on all of the insects that I've researched, so make
good use of it.

***

### Mantis

The Mantis is a rather assertive insect, and likes to examine it's surroundings
with it's large, powerful eyes. Being able to see great distances, it will
openly attack anyone or anything that it deems weaker that it is.

Warriors, Monks, and Rogues should attack it, and all insects, from behind,
just as the bug decides to move. I've hunted many insects with great success
using this technique. Wizards should use Srad or Athar spells on these -
bugs seem to have a tendency to cook rather well.

### Centipede

Centipedes are as dangerous as Manti and should be avoided,
unless ye have a nice sharp sword with ye. They often have a temper that rivals
any disgruntled goblin.

Follow the same attack methods for a Centipede as ye would a Mantis.

###  Wasp

Wasps are one of the most interesting species of insect. While by far not the
strongest creature ye will come across, these winged beings pose significant
threat to the unwary Aisling. While docile until attacked, their anger can
surface without notice.

Again, attacking from behind and getting the jump on a wasp is key to victory.
I have found that Srad spells work quite well on these creatures.

### Spider

A spider is basically a crawling version of a wasp, in sorts. Spiders are
reclusive, and will not attack unless ye poke it with a stick or something.
They can spit a burning liquid from their mouths, and have quick reflexes.
Mostly, they inhabit the caves and dank crypts.

Most of the time, just give a spider a good stomp to kill it. Srad, Creag, and
Sal spells will also help to end household infestation.

### Scorpions

Scorpions are dark creatures, for every inch of their body is covered in
shell-like armor, and their tails are equipped with a large stinger, about the
size of a dirk. They can be identified by their red, glossy bodies, and a
clicking noise that serves as a form of warning. Unless ye are looking for a
fast way to Sgrios, don't go looking for these things.

ALWAYS attack from behind the creature, as it must have time to turn around to
face you to attack. It is unknown what spells work the best on Scorpions, but I
assume that a few, well-placed Srad, or Creag spells will work just fine.

***

Perhaps now that ye understand our overlooked friends a little better, ye can
wander in the woods, or go on an exploration trip in Pravat Cave without
worrying so much about the crawling thing in a corner, or a buzzing sound in a
sunny vale. Know your insects, and ye will always have an enjoyable trip
outdoors.

_Velious Darksbane_
_Deoch 17, Spring_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Velious_Insect.html .
```


