# The Magicks of the Priesthood

_By Verdian in **Dark Ages**_

Few understand the concepts of the Magicks of the Priesthood. I myself cannot
fully comprehend the power the Gods have bestowed upon us, and most of this is
purely speculation based on personal experiences and several other texts I have
read. I write this in hopes that it will causes others to speak their minds and
offer other ideas on the source of a priest's power. So let us now begin.

## The Magick

The source of all priest's powers is the Gods. Every spell, every incantation
is a prayer asking for help. This is why religion plays such an important role
in the life of a priest. We are the chosen few who can tap the power of the
Gods. The way we go about doing this, however, is somewhat complicated to
explain. Being faithful is an important part, for through faith we gain the
recognition of the Gods. The Gods make it happen. We are merely the vessel of
their will, so it is always nice to stay on their good side. This brings up
another important point: channeling. Each gesture and word spoken is a way to
channel the power a priest receives. The words call out for aid, for through
the word the deed is set in motion. Next is the gesture. The gesture is what
releases the power, what makes the word come to pass. Any word will do when
calling to the Gods, for no matter what you say a God will know what you want,
what is in your heart. As long as you have firmly in your mind what you wish to
happen, it will. Sometimes this is quite easy. For example, healing a fellow
Aisling is fairly easy to understand, you wish for the wounds to heal. Other
times, however, in more complicated magicks or in the heat of battle, it can be
hard to phrase your request coherently because of distractions. When this
happens the request tot he Gods fails and thus the spell itself. When a priest
reaches a certain insight and he begins to understand his powers more, it is
possible to ignore the gesture and the word entirely. With certain staves
infused with the a God's powers, a priest can directly channel their request to
the Gods, saving precious seconds to aid a friend.

Any aisling nay call upon the power of the God they worship. The problem lies,
though, in the fact that this power needs to be channeled in some way. So upon
joining a God's faith, each aisling is given a prayer necklace. This is a
device that lets someone call upon a God and receive help. Even priests, who
already can channel the power of the God's power, use this necklace. For the
payer necklace, a direct link to the Gods, can offer powers sometimes greater
than the priest can control on his own. In the temples of the God's, it is
possible to ask the God's chosen Priest or Priestess for aid in praying to a
God. Praying to a God directly through a prayer necklace or the chosen Priest
and Priestess is directly related to how faithful you are to that God. The Gods
are fair-minded and help those most who show they are loyal through gifts and
giving thanks. The more faith one has in a God, the more one can do using that
God's power.

Each spell can be classified under a different God, for the power of each
God is different and can be channeled for different purposes.

*Deoch* - concentrates on healing and rebirth, like the Phoenix out of the
flames. You would pray to him for ioc and regenerative spells like slan.

*Glioca* - is the Goddess of the Priests, and the ao spells are the prayers she
answers. To help others when they are cursed is to show compassion.

*Cail* - Cail aids the priest with summoning spells and few others involving
nature. Cail loves all of nature, so treat your creatures kindly!

*Ceannlaidir* - This God of War aids in the enhancement of war abilities
through prayer such as fas deireas. Few people understand why this God wants to
help Glioca's children, but some believe it is for an act he regrets long ago.

*Sgrios* - This dark answers the prayer for curses
which a priest calls down upon his foes. Sgrios is a necessary evil, as are his
spells. Do not underestimate them! Spells such as cradh and puisein are
examples of his.

*Gramail* - The law is what protects the weak and innocent, and
Gramail, the God of Law, concetrates on sheild spells to protect a priest and
his friends from harm. Spells such as armachd are Gramail's blessing.

*Luathas* - The God of Knowledge wishes to teach others in this world. Through
these lectures a priest can channel the voice of Luathas and inscribe it on
coins for others to read.

*Fiosachd* - This God aids others by increasing their ability to avoid danger.
The beannaich spells are Fiosachd's contribution.

A priest has at their disposal almost unlimited power when they tap into the
Gods. It is important to remember that all of the Gods help us, not just one,
and all should be honored accordingly. For a priest to ignore a God is to
ignore the full potential he may posses.

_Verdian, Priest of Glioca_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Verdian_Priesthood.htm .
```


