# The Temple Circles

> _The thin nub of the quill scrapes along the fine grain of the thick
> parchment arrayed before a tall man in priestly robes, the golden length of
> his hair falling to his lower back even with his head bowed over the table in
> fierce meditation. Several other sheets lie at his feet, discarded failures,
> replaced with a fresh page from the sheaf before him. Crystalline eyes glance
> at a finely sketched diagram on another, rougher sheet to the side, a diagram
> of intertwined circles, as he continues his scribing._

Upon my waking in this land, bereft of memory save my name, I was directed to a
large aged temple upon the very edge of Milenth, sent by the kindly innkeeper
after a long and pleasant conversation. Each traveler treads upon these mystic
symbols whilst on their Journey, their complex enchantment draining the will
and vigor from their guests. After my Choosing, I didst spend much time within
the walls of this hallowed place, studying the symbol and utilizing mine own
strength to keep the young visitors upon their feet.

The place has a very austere and foreboding air, the cold stone and rough
carvings lit only by the light of the flickering braziers upon the granite
pedestals near the door-like passages. From speaking and my own determination,
I suspect this be the work of the Tuatha de dannan, to aid with the Choosing of
the Aisling. Each orb has upon it an enchantment, and upon the center where the
magic be at its peak, ye can hear the voices that guide the young to their
enlightenment, to the place of the Master of their Path.

Yet few do truly gaze upon the nested rings and ponder of their meaning, and
that is what I did set out to do. By mine determinations, this artifact be a
subtle rendition of the nature of our land and culture, until the outer sphere
of what I term the Nexus is reached. All resides in the Nexus, free-moving and
unbound, yet contained. The edge of the Nexus be creation and destruction, and
naught exists past that boundary.

Within the Nexus lie the realms and creatures, all interconnected and bound
unto each other. Nothing can exist or flourish be it freestanding, all require
the aid and support of the other elements, and with all support, the growth is
unfettered and strong. Each is but a part of the whole, and the most
magnificent is on the event which all parts wok together, and miracles can
happen.

Looking upon the sketch, I see the places within the Nexus where the good of
the realm does not hold sway, those placed unconfined by the rings of the
Tuatha. Within the darkness of this emptiness be the places where the creatures
of the dark spawn in their deep hatred of the light and all that is pure. Only
the united faith of the Lightbringers keeps these at bay, staving off the
assaults with their bodies and faith, supporting each other with their
uniqueness.

And so the classes of the Aislings are intertwined, each harshly unable to do
alone even a faint glimmer of what their combined abilities can do. Wizards
wield the might of the elements with ease, yet without the strength of the
Warrior before them they fall under the onslaught of the dark. Even the Warrior
falters with time, be there no Priest to nurture the body and soul. Yet the
Priest shan't stand under assault where the barehanded agility of the Monk
holds sway. And at times, the Monk fails at the feat that a Rogue can do with
ease. Yet without the backing of a Wizard, the Rogue would fall to death.

All is intertwined, linked beyond comprehension. Yet all stand together in
their existence within the Nexus. Ponder upon this and ye shall find that the
world opens up to ye, and with that opening comes wisdom and strength in the
backing of friends and companions. Tis a long journey to attempt alone, take
heart from the circles.

_Virgil Delos_  
_Priest and Scholar_  

```
The rolled parchment is given to the messenger, to be delivered to the high
priests for review, as the author turns to Monk Laja and Wizard Arioch behind
him.

"Shall we be off?"
```

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry is one of the greatest treasures of Temuair.

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Virgil_Circles.html .
```

