# Theory of Energy Balance

## Preface

In the paths of magic, for reference, within this writ, these are both the
wizard and the priest, 6 different magical elements have been known to effect
the casters. For the wizard these are the elemental forces of Srad, Athar,
Creag, and Sal, certain powerful wizards also control the dark elements. For
the priest these energies are either of Light, and in Deo Saighead, or Dark, as
in Cradh.

Now, it is accepted that these energies are opposing each other, yet opposing
forces will, for the most part hold a balance. It is my proposal that, the
energies form not a hexagram, but an octagram, as shown below.

_Author's Note: Looking back on this drawing after i finished my theory it
seems i must have accidently set some of my mulled wine on the diagram, this
would account for the stains._

Let me start by explaining how I have set up the wizardry elements before I
move on to the more controversial priest energies.

## Natural Elemental Forces

The 'Natural Elementals', as I have labled them, include Srad, Creag, Athar,
and Sal. These are forces which we can see, or feel in nature. Each one, as
you go around the octagram, skipping every other point, dominates the one
immediately clockwise from itself. Thus Srad dominates Creag, Creag dominates
Athar, and so on.

It is accepted that water will put out a fire, fire will scorch earth, earth
prevents wind from moving more freely, and, well, if you're in water when
lightning strikes you'll have the need of either a good priest or an even
better coffin-maker.

I'll discuss each element and its place on the octagram in further detail
below.

### Srad

The elemental force of fire is seen as a source of destruction, yet creation as
well (see Baking). Its place at the top of the octagram is due to its universal
role as both destroyer and creator. Directly opposite of it is the element of
Athar, or wind, this is its nuetral element, one which it does not harm and yet
doesn't get over-powered by.

### Creag

The elemental force of earth is seen mainly as a source of creation and
nurturing. It can be destructive as well though. Its possition on the side of
the octagram is symbolic of its wanning destructive powers. Directly opposite
of it is the element of Sal, or water, this is its nuetral element. Earth can
be washed away by water, yet earth also shapes water's course, thus they stand
in a nuetral relationship.

### Athar

The elemental force of wind is the thing that gives us the ability to keep on
going. Without wind or air we would surely die. Its possition on the bottom of
the octagram symbolizes its lessened powers of destruction. Directly opposite
of it is the element of Srad, or fire, this is its nuetral element.

### Sal

The elemental force of water is another life giving thing, yet floods and
drought are two of many ways water can do harm. Its possition on the side of
the octagram symbolizes its waxing power of destruction. Directly opposite of
it is the element of Creag, or earth, this is its neutral element.

## Metaphysical Forces

The 'Metaphysical forces' are ones that we cannot truly feel, some may believe
that they feel the light or the dark, but this isn't a physical feeling, it is
a mental feeling. The forces at play in these forces are much more difficult to
understand. Each is nuetral to the one clockwise to it, dominating over the one
across from it, and yet overpowering as well to the force counter- clockwise
from it. The Light will be overcome by Evening, Evening will fade into
Darkness, Darkness will be overthrown by Morning, and Morning will brighten
into Light. At the same time, Light can never exist where Darkness is, while
Morning can never be brought to remain where Evening resides.

### Light

The powers of Light are felt throughout the day, it is always Light, save for
the occasional cloud cover. Light brings us hope and we feel protected by the
light (Example: Deo Saighead, Armachd)

### Evening

Evening is a comforting force, willing us to put away the Light and sleep.
Evening brings on tiredness and lethargy. (Example: Pramh)

### Dark

The Dark is felt throughout nightime, we stay mainly in our homes, or the
occasional inn, so that we can stay away from the Darkness outside. Darkness is
a terrible force that makes us fearful and un-protected. (Example: Cradh)

### Morning

The time of morning is one that we all wake up to, unless of course like me you
care to sleep in till mid afternoon. Morning brings us energy and vigor.
(Example: Beannaich)

## The Octagram Reviewed

The octagram set-up of energies provides us with balance, all the forces must
remain in balance or else one will overcome the other.

Srad would conquer creag, Creag would dominate Athar, Athar would electrify
Sal, and Sal would put-out Srad.

Evening would blot out the Light, Darkness would overcome Evening, Morning
would lighten Darkness, and Light would brush away morning.

## Conclusion

It is my conclusion that we have, not six, but eight elemental forces at play
in Temauir. We must realize that it is vastly imperitive that we keep all the
energies in balance lest utter chaos should happen. Should one of the forces of
the sets overpower the other, we should find ourselves forever blanketed by
darkness, constantly awakened because it is morning outside, our fields
flooded, or burned down by fire.

This must never happen, though I do believe that nature will take care of it
should it ever happen.

_Wintermoon d'Winter_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Wintermoon_Energy.html .
```
