# A Beginners Guide to Theology

_By Wuhao in **Dark Ages**_

I should begin this writing by saying that I am not a writer. I have been told
that I am a good speaker, and I have been told that when I give mass, my
sermons are insightful. However, the extent of my writing experience has been
in writing small bits on various boards. And so, please try and bear with my
attempts at writing.

The topic of this writing is theology. How one can get their answers to the
nature of the gods, how those answers can be multiple, and how they can differ.
As an example, we will be exploring Fiosachd.

Someone taught me long ago that one should be careful in the study of their
god. Do your best only to work with the facts that are before you. Any guesses
or assumptions you make you must prepare to toss aside as quickly as garbage.
If you treat your theory as fact, or disregard fact as theory, you will not be
truly following your god. You will only be following the god you invented.

***

Let us now establish the facts that are before us. Firstly, we will deal with
Fiosachd's allies.

One of these allies is Ceannlaidir, god of War, Honor, and Strength. Where
there is war and strife, there is Ceannlaidir. In every line of every army on
every battlefield, his essence echoes through the very air. Perhaps as you are
hunting, you may find that in the midst of a terrific battle, there is a
powerful force amplifying you, making you stronger and faster. Listen to your
heartbeat. It could be said that the fast beating of hearts make up the drums
of Ceannlaidir's anthem, the battle cries and wails the chorus, and the
clanging of weapon against weapon against armor the instruments.

But Ceannlaidir does not encourage random killing. He is, after all, the god of
honor. A war is not senseless killing. Certainly many wars can be avoided. But
there is a reason for the death of every soldier, even the innocent villagers,
in the wars. A war is not waged on a whim. A war needs purpose. Ceannlaidir's
bloodthirst can only be satiated with the blood of an honorable death.

The other ally is Gramail, god of Law and Order, both natural and artificial.
Where Ceannlaidir is there when sword meets sword on the battlefield, Gramail
is there when word meets word in the city halls. Gramail brings impartiality
and fairness, and embodies quite possibly the most key element in a successful
civilization. Just as Ceannlaidir does not encourage dishonorable, random
killings, Gramail does not condone useless, overly restrictive, or opressive
laws.

Many times, you may see a crime committed or a useless law passed, and you cry
out "Gramail, where are you" at the top of your lungs. Gramail is there, but he
is silent. It may be that Gramail's impartiality is so supreme he cannot
compromise it by making himself visible and attacking one aisling or another,
but that is mere speculation on my part.

***

We have now established the identities of Gramail and Ceannlaidir. Let's move
on to his enemies.

Deoch, god of Rapture, Creativity, and Inspiration is Fiosachd's enemy. Deoch
was originally a dubbhaimd god of Debauchery, but mended his ways after falling
in love with Danaan. He brings us the Aisling spark, and all of us owe a debt
to him. For him we name our calender, and despite being the enemy of the god I
serve, I take his inspirations often. When quill meets parchment, when bards
write their songs and tales, when poets assemble their beautiful words, Deoch
is there in our hearts and minds. A life without Deoch would be a difficult one
indeed.

Deoch is surely a god of the heart. When you are overwhelmed with inspiration,
and feel almost on fire, that is the fire of Deoch, burning away distracting
thoughts and heating the target idea of his inspiration to the point where it
glows within you.

Cail, god of Nature and Balance, and the patron god of monks. Born from a
deceitfully induced union of Glioca and Ceannlaidir, Cail is both strong and
peaceful. Ceannlaidir saw Cail to be stronger than himself, and forbade him the
art of weaponry in an attempt to keep Cail from replacing and surpassing him.

Cail's balance exists between all things. Nothing exists in this world that
cannot be countered by another. The corollary to that is that nothing exists in
this world that cannot overcome it's counter in sufficient quantity. Cail might
be seen to take after his mother in that he does not hate. However, he does not
necessarily love. We may be comfortable outdoors taking a hike when the sun
shines nicely down on us, but we aren't so eager to take a leisurely stroll
when the rain beats down upon us like so many icy spikes. I believe his
impartiality is not like Gramail's in that where Gramail is impartial for the
greater strength of the group, Cail's impartiality is for the sake of balance.
A subtle, yet very important and key difference.

***

Now we know who Fiosachd's allies and enemies are. This will assist us in
determining who Fiosachd is.

Fiosachd is the god of Stealth, Wealth, and Luck. He is the patron god of
rogues. Cast out of Aosda under uncertain circumstances, Fiosachd roamed the
lands. The master rogue, he has accumulated a vast wealth that he shares with
his followers, and he brings the blessings of dexterity. He does not favor a
direct approach, preferring a quiet, less obvious way of doing things.

His alliance with Gramail suggests that he is not a thief. This is supported by
the fact that rogues, to whom he gives his blessings, begin their careers with
an oath to Fiosachd to avoid the path of theft. His alliance with Ceannlaidir
shows that he is not opposed to bloodshed and war, suggesting that
assassination is not beneath him.

It can be said that he is not greedy, and is in fact generous. He gives freely
of his vast, incomprehensible wealth, and has done so for as long as any can
recall.

Let's explore some of the mysteries of this shadowy god. He was cast out of
Aosda. Why? His nature suggests that he may have been a thief, cast out of
Aosda in shame. Perhaps this forced him to mend his ways, causing him to become
the honorable rogue now. As he changed, he might've gone completely the other
direction and become extremely lawful, explaining his alignment with Gramail.

Another is that he was cast out in fear. Humans are imperfect. Nothing has been
demonstrated to prove the gods are any different. It would destroy the gods to
have their secrets and plans revealed, and who better than a master rogue such
as Fiosachd to perform such a task? Once defused by being removed from the land
of the Gods, Gramail and Ceannlaidir could safely align themselves with him. As
he wandered out of Aosda, Ceannlaidir could certainly appreciate having
Fiosachd to explore lands and find new potential wars to incite, and Gramail
might appreciate his tales of the laws of far off land, or maybe use Fiosachd
as a spy on the dark criminal undergrounds of each city.

Let's play with another part of our god's story. Deoch. Why would the god of
Rogues shun the god of Creativity? Perhaps Fiosachd does not appreciate Deoch's
inspirations and raptures luring rogues to become thieves. But another
possibility comes from Fiosachd's choice of friends -- Ceannlaidir and Gramail.
One follows a code of honor, the other a code of law. Deoch encourages the
following of one's heart, no matter what it says. If Gramail and Ceannlaidir
are any indication, Fiosachd might not believe in following such freedoms.
Fiosachd is certainly a very loose, free person, but he condemns theft.
Restrictions on one's actions would certainly oppose Deoch's teachings.

And Gramail. Certainly Fiosachd's loose beliefs and attracted crowd would go
against every shred of Gramail's teachings! An idea I am quite fond of is that
Fiosachd does not break the laws. Bend? Yes. Interpret based on his interests?
No doubt. Stretch? Absolutely. But not break. This would make for an
interesting life for Fiosachd. If Fiosachd disregarded the law, he would be
Gramail's worst nightmare. Fiosachd's rogues are powerful enough on their own,
but with Fiosachd's guidance and blessings, they could break any law, commit
any crime, and never be caught. And if Fiosachd weren't a god, he could
certainly spend his life like that. But he's not. Certainly after a few
centuries of no-challenge disruptions of the law, Fiosachd would tire of his
game. Which would tie into the "Fiosachd-exile-for-theft-from-Aosda" theory
that I mentioned above as a reason for his reform.

A game of simply exploiting the law would bring considerably more long-lasting
entertainment for Fiosachd, considering that laws change frequently. And
Gramail might appreciate it, since to streamline laws, one must have their laws
tested. Fiosachd's alliance with Gramail would bring a very detailed knowledge
of the law to Fiosachd, and would allow Gramail to test potential laws he might
inspire by running them by Fiosachd, the master rogue.

Another possibility is that for a society to survive, one must have laws. And
what is wealth without a society to place value on it? What good is gold if it
cannot be spent somewhere? What good is a mansion if it is going to be burned
tomorrow by looters? Which would explain Fiosachd's placing of importance on
abstaining from theft -- If one does not follow laws, they contribute to the
death of society. And with the death of society comes the death of wealth.

And Cail. What does a peaceful, natural god like Cail dislike about one like
Fiosachd? It seems they exist in two completely seperate worlds, which may be
the root of the problem. Cail represents the natural setting of things.
Fiosachd's followers thrive in more urban environments. One does not swindle a
snake out of it's fortune. One does not barter with a wolf. Fiosachd's world
opposes Cail's. One might think that this explanation would be a reason for
apathy, not animosity. But ask a farmer who comes to the city what troubles him
most. "The swinders, the merchants, all of it!" Cail could quite possibly be
disturbed by this as well.

Another possibility is that Cail dislikes Fiosachd's habit of exploitation.
Surely that spirit was in action when trees were cut down to erect houses, and
ecosystems disrupted so mundanes and aislings could live in their place.

***

We have now explored a few theological questions about Fiosachd. Let us now
conclude.

It is said to be a characteristic of theology that one can ask a single
question and get a dozen answers. And if I can impress one idea on you with
this document, it's that if you start thinking about a theological question and
only arrive at one answer, you are most likely doing something terribly wrong.
The gods don't seem to like publicizing themselves, leaving us to guess at the
huge, gaping blanks they leave us. There are many things that can fit those
blanks.

Never, ever assume yourself to be the absolute word. Never, ever lock yourself
to a single theory and not learn from there. Never, ever forget that "theory"
and "theology" share the same root.

_Wuhao Iosef Mythrin_
_Former high priest of Fiosachd_

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Wuhao_Theology.html .
```
