# Dusgadh de Chadul

_by Xilan in **Dark Ages**_

> _This is a lecture that has been scribed by request of and for Xilan Horidre,
> professor at Mileth University and student of the realm. To those that are
> willing to listen, he teaches, explains, and interjects a bit of his own views
> here and there. I am Dresden Kjaan.. and I have recorded the lesson onto
> scrolls so that others may experience what I have.. these are Xilan's views
> only, Im just a messenger. The rigid order is my own work, however.. but it is
> just a means of organization, still all Xilan's words.

## Preface

Welcome students of Temuair, t'day we're in fer a bit of a touchy subject..
somethin' we all need ta' be aware of as it will affect each and every one of
us if indeed the prophecy is proved true.. Ye know me, Xilan, teacher and all
that.. but all the titles and ego aside.. the seriousness of this discussion
supersedes anythin' and everythin' else that could possibly be goin' on in
Temuair at the moment.. Oft, I roam through the realm of Temuair, running into
heretic after heretic.. seeing arguments abound over things such as insight,
clothing.. all having selfish and jealous origins. If these were singular
occurances, I would understand.. but as time goes by.. and more and more things
happen.. it leads me to only one conclusion.. Chadul.. will soon return.

_Here, we all sit in front of the Fae's tree in the middle of the enchanted
garden.. where Xilan prefers to teach when he feels there is more to learn than
a bit of simple lore and the classroom does not fulfill his requirements.._

## General Patterns

There are many patterns that I have discovered in my studies. Firstly, there is
the pattern of the aeons. In the 1st through 6th aeons, there was discovery and
purity primarily. In the 7th through 10th, there has been much despair... Many
wars, many risings, and many deaths. There seems to be a cycle, and if this
cycle holds true, there are 2 more aeons of darkness that we have to look
forward to. As evident by the use of numerology, it is obvious that this is the
case. Then there is the Aislin'? What 'as become of us, what are we changin'
inta'? Uninspired bein's? No one can tell fer sure, but time will. Then ye 'ave
the gateways and paths that are bein' formed. When paths are formed, they are
used strategically, to ease attack and defense. Anyone can see there are ways
bein' made and roads bein' laid.. now the question is, why? Lastly, what if the
Pact of Anaman resurfaces? As of today a new motley 'as been formed, named
'Anaman's Pact'.. maybe with the 'opes of awakenin' Chadul.. ignorantly I
suppose, maybe thinkin' their lives will be spared.. 'owever I doubt that
Chadul 'as that idea. Prepare ta' think students, we're in fer a long day.

## Aislinghood

I'm not quite sure what is goin' on with Aislin's as of late.. there seems ta'
be a change in their behavioral patterns over periods of time.. This is not to
say that this is true fer all the new Aislings, but for the predominant half
that erroneously received the spark of Deoch as they were intended t'be
mundanelings, ye see this. Many who are so used to the terms level, computer,
and the like.. are all too oft bein' allowed ta' use these heretical terms and
gettin' away with it. At times, the 'eretics are glorified because of their
ability ta' slaughter things fer days on end `((Temuairan days, although that
doesn't always hold true either))`, and ta' gain "level" after "level" leavin'
insight in the dust. With some, the 'unt is a part of their life, therefore I
canna generalize everyone inta' a class that does nothin' more.. but, long ago,
when there was less ta' kill and less ta' do.. the Aislin's spark shone
brighter, as their minds were more of a channel than their biceps.. I canna be
certain but am rather sure that this chaos is all inspired by Chadul, or at
least his dubhaimid and servants. At the rate we are goin', Temuair is in for
somewhat of a fall.

_Chadul was held at bay at the darkness. Not without casualties. The mortal
world was ravaged by hail, earthquakes, floods, fire, and the fingers of the
dubhaimid. The beings realized what was done and wept for mortality. Mortal spirits
wandered the land, and slipped into the darkness of Chadul's realm. Darkness
spread._

As I'm noticin', this process of Aislin' spirits dyin' is not far from over. On
a Temuairan daily basis, we lose Aislin's ta' mundanehood, sometimes.. e'en
death. Chadul was not pushed inta' the depths of darkness, 'e is only on the
edge of it. Therefore, 'e is not far at all from us in Temuair. Oft do we see
Aislin' after Aislin' arguin' aimlessly, selfishly, ignorantly. Sometimes o'er
things which dinna involve them, but they take it upon themselves in a
Gramailian nature ta' judge another, oft with the wrong mindset, but they do so
nonetheless. Many Aislin's become discouraged and give up, fallin' inta' the
darkness themselves.. becomin' mundane. Some just assimilate, turn inta'
'untin' maniacs, fergettin' that the spark was given ta' them fer more than
just the 'unt.

## Numerological Approach

It is believed that numbers play a huge role in the nature of all things. It is
apparent t'me that this 'olds true within the occurances of Temuair. Let us
examine these examples. The League of Darkness.. had 8 members: Tenes, 6 other
lords, and Chadul. The number 8, often lacks feeling for those who stand in the
way of goals. Also, the number 8 is representative of the desire to strive
higher, take control, seek power, status. Also, notice the birth of Chadul was
in the eighth aeon, once again following with the pattern of the number 8.
Chadul's ultimate desire is no doubt to control Temuair, and ta' 'ave every
Aislin' and mundane alike, at 'is feet. The number 3 is also common in the
history of Temuair in regards to Chadul. Chadul controls the third realm, the
underworld. He was also defeated in 3 days by Danaan. The number 3 is
representative of one who fears routine, may lack self-discipline, accomplish
little. It also means energies and ideas in action. The action taken was by
Danaan in her swift defeat of Chadul. On the other hand, Chadul represents
chaos, the epitome of lack of "self-discipline." Chadul is never able to make
things happen himself, as he had the dubhaimid and the League of Darkness to
enact such things for him. This would show his lack of the ability to
accomplish things on his own. There is a pattern to this, as is it seems.
Coupled with the number 11, which would be the next aeon, is enlightenment and
discovery. This would also mean the return of Chadul as he would return to
submit all of his to his extreme darkness, and without Danaan's return, we
would succumb to it indefinitely.

## Pravat Caves and Astrid Sacrificial Grounds

I see that everyone is interested in the insight that is to be gained, and the
legend of their involvement to be recorded fer all their fellow Aislin's t'see,
'ardly do Aislin's consider the ramificaitons of these lands, and their
origins. Astrid is obviously a sacrificial ground, as Lethalia made evident in
'er piece "Philosophy of Caroun".. Sacrifices are usually made ta' gods, 'opin'
fer their blessin's. There was one place where Aislin's could sacrafice
themselves fer the 'elp of dubhaimid familiars. This sacrafice took the faith
that the Aislin' 'ad in the god they worshipped. The faith that is expended,
was directed ta' Chadul, who is in 'is evil slumber. This sacrafice of self
could be used to aid Chadul in his awakening. The kobolds.. the goblins.. e'en
the nobles of Loures.. are the ones that are attemptin' ta' awake the
embodiment of evil 'imself. Many times, Cyril 'as told the Aislin' population
of the disapproval of our involvement in said events, speaking on behalf of
Loures. Why would they disapprove? A pattern seems t' be developin'.. somethin'
of Aislin' defiance if ye will. As we 'elp in these events, savin' children,
collectin' conix fragments, and the like.. we 'ave been openin' up gateway
after gateway.. from Mileth ta' Piet and possibly a more divine gateway.. from
the third realm, the underworld.. directly inta' Suomi. Aislin' nature is
curious, as we are inspired by Deoch and 'tis our spark that deems our nature
so. More often than not did we defy the mundane authority of Cyril. Cyril may
'ave known all along that we as Aislin's would probably rush inta' these
assorted situations, not considerin' exactly what their "true" purpose was.
Reverse psychology is quite possibly the most ingenious and deviant way of
gettin' someone ta' do what ye want, without them knowin' your true intentions.
This could be true with Cyril, as 'e is in league with Chadul. 'is 'elp in the
openin' of the gateways ta' the underworld are what 'e 'ad in mind all along.
Now.. the question is, what are the possible consequences of the placement of
the Astridian sacrificial grounds? Notice where it lies, directly next ta' the
temple of Deoch. Deoch, is responsible fer the spark within every Aislin' in
Temuair. 'e gives us our lives. This spark is all that we 'ave that seperates
us from the other races of Temuair, the more mundane of these in their
processes, at least the ones we see. Dubhaimid 'ave the spark of Chadul, I'd
like t'say, which makes them as evil as they are. Why would they want the spark
of the Aislin'? No one can explain what exactly it is, but we all know it ta'
be the most important thing ta' an Aislin'. If Chadul manages ta' acquire the
spark 'imself.. 'e may be able ta' instill it in 'is evil army, weakenin' us
e'en more so 'gainst 'is power.

## The Pact of Loures and the Dark Trinity

_Loures formed a pact with the Rishi Mukul, the druids of the Mehadi swamp. I
have personally visited the Rishi. We have come to an agreement that will allow
us to harvest their sacred flower, the Tulsi, in exchange for an offering at a
ceremony of their dread god, to appease It from anger of the massive
disturbance of Its sacred ground; from harvesting the flower that has been
sacrificed to It; to prevent It from awakening._

Just recently, the pact which was formed by Cyril the counselor was apparently
broken. It was promised that the people of Loures would make a sacrafice to
Natesh, to appease the dread god of the Rishi. Apparently, this did not take
place considerin' the shadow that is slowly overtakin' the realm of Temuair.
Quite possibly, 'twas a plan of Cyril all along. 'e knew, in the askin' of
Aislin's ta' fetch the flower ta' save 'is daughter, 'e would be angerin' the
dread god. It seemed ta' be 'is desire all along which I can understand. The
dread god did not receive 'is offerin' and 'as now sent 'is minions upon us. It
is quite possible that Natesh is in league with Chadul. It may e'en be Chadul,
as there could possibly be a trinity: Chadul, Natesh, and.. Cyril. Holy
trinities aren't awkward ideas.. and they are usually formed by: the divine,
the 'uman, and the "spiritual." Chadul would serve as the divine god, Cyril the
'uman, and Natesh the spiritual. With Cyril's death, 'e was sent ta' Chadul's
realm, bringin' 2 of the members of the trinity t'gether. Now, with the
awakenin' of Natesh, the trinity may be approachin' completion. Who's ta' say
what will 'appen after the completion of their sinister bond.. only they know.

## Conclusion

Chadul's awakenin' may not be swift, as it 'as taken aeons ta' come 'bout.. but
'tis comin' and 'tis comin' sooner than ever. Bein' the mage that I am, the
study is me forte and as ye can see, I come across more and more proof of me
beliefs every Temuairan day. I dinna know what ta' say anymore, I dread the
arrival of this forsaken entity. I 'ope that ye all 'eed me words, and e'en if
there is nothin' ye can do ta' stop it.. at least know that 'e is descendin'
upon us, and descendin' upon us soon. 'opefully, I pray ta' Deoch, that Danaan
will awake ta' accompany the rise of this foul bein'. No one ever said she
should 'owever, but we can at least 'ope. Deoch be with ye all.

_Xilan Horidre_
_A thank you to Talshaya Purehurst for her rendition of Chadul above._

> Some awaken from their sleep.. others applaud.. but I.. I.. sit and wonder..
> what if it's true.. what if it's all coming to an end.. only time will tell..
> farewell my brothers and sisters.. may Cail be .. with you.
> \- Dresden Kjaan

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Xilan_Chadul.html .
```
