# The Holy Doctrine of Balance: Worship of Sgrios

_by Zelina in **Dark Ages**_

To most Aislings, the worship of the God of death and decay, Sgrios, is an
abominable act, viewed as the damnation of the followers soul and expulsion
from society. However, most people throughout history who have mobbed Sgrios
worshippers out of their villages and burnt people accused of alliance at the
stake have never thought deeper into the meaning of Sgrios' holy being. The
octagram that connects the Gods has an important purpose, not only to show that
alliance of the divine beings, but also to show the balance that those holy
powers share in our world. Without one side of the ancient star, the
neighboring sides fall to pieces without meaning. Surely the good Aislings of
today can take the time to think clearly on this level of balance and stop the
endless violence that our ancestors have shaped.

Ever since the reconstruction of the Temple of Glioca in Mileth, the Goddess of
compassion has become an ever-growing fellowship of citizens, one of the
largest in our world. By this most would expect Aislings to become more
compassionate towards their neighbors, perhaps even towards their greatest
enemies, as it is in the teachings of Glioca' This is not so.

However far the reach of good may spread, those who are Light-blinded will
always seek to snuff out anything that is not their own beliefs, for to most
who take on a religion, their own doctrine is supreme in reign. Sadly, villages
are still torn to apart when opposite deities inhabit the lives of friends and
neighbors, more so if one of the Gods happens to be the dreaded Sgrios. Why, I
ask, in this time of great enlightenment after the disastrous affairs of the
eighth aeon of Temuair, do we still insist on making ourselves the only right?
Clearly, without war, new things could not grow, passage of time could not wear
into new ages, law could not be upheld, and compassion could not be stirred
forth once again. Without death, life ceases its meaning and becomes a drawn
out affair, something begged to be taken at last, and without decay, change
cannot exist, fortune cannot be tested, the past always lingering about. Do we
not grow wiser as time robs us of our youth, yielding to this decay of the
ages? Fortune pays its dues with this passage of time, and law is created with
the wisdom we have earned. The deities are so delicately intertwined, yet all
Aislings seem rooted in our own beliefs without notice of the fragile
connection.

Likewise, not all people of ill law and dark heart worship in the triad of
"darkness". Anyone citizen may look back into the course of their life and see
examples of dishonesty in every shape: the merchant who worshipped Gramail, yet
charged poor farmers their livestock for clothes, the Glioca priest who ignored
the dying peasant to mind her own needs, or the Ceannlaidir follower the
refused to help her brother fight a losing battle. So many terrible mistakes of
forgetting what we stand for, only remembering when a rival force comes into
play. People of vile action can be found in every class and religion, not only
the ranks of the Sgrios triad.

I weep for the Children of Sgrios, driven from their homes and burned alive for
the sake of a higher "good", while in turn, I weep for the people who have been
killed by the Children, stricken in fear of who may call what they believe for
all to hear and punish them for. We must stop this madness and see the true
Light: all are needed for the balance of nature and time. Death brings the
necessary ending to the circle of being, making room for new life, which is in
turn fueled by the power of decay. Have our farmers not found that rotting
leaves and fruits cause seeds to grow more effectively? Do our wizards not use
decaying materials to work their arts?

Sgrios indeed forms an important part of being, which most Aislings regard with
bitterness and anger. Death, to most, is a terrible occurrence; taking loved
ones from their sight and threatening their journeys of life. Perhaps if death
were regarded as a completion of the circle, not the theft of something a
person once possessed, the religion of Sgrios would not have experienced the
number of problems it has throughout the centuries.

Someday, Aislings may finally become harmonious in their actions once again,
accepting each other for their parts in the balance of our world, though such a
day will require great work from all who exist. With the study of this balance
and the opening of minds, our goal could be closer at hand' if only we could
think in new ways, as Deoch would wish, our compassion stirred, as Glioca would
love, our will to fight for our cause brought to life as Ceannlaidir feels the
need, our faith in luck and blessings revived, as Fiosachd desires, our sense
of justice refilled by Gramail, our minds opened by new knowledge as Luathas
cares, our sense of natural balance returned as Cail would love, and bury old
grudges to give way to what lies ahead, as Sgrios wills.

Perhaps one day.

***

```
*Librarian Notes*

This entry has been edited to conform to Library formatting.
The original can be found at http://www.darkages.com/community/phi/Zelina_Sgrios.html .
```
